 Committee of the
  Whole Meeting
November 14, 2023
                               Murray City Municipal Council
                                Committee of the Whole
                                     Meeting Notice
                                               November 14, 2023
                                                  Murray City Center

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Murray City Municipal Council will hold a Committee of the
Whole meeting beginning at 3:15 p.m. on Tuesday, November 14, 2023 in the Poplar Meeting Room #151
located at Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Murray, Utah.

The public may view the Committee of the Whole Meeting via the live stream at www.murraycitylive.com
or https://www.facebook.com/Murraycityutah/.

Meeting Agenda

3:15 p.m.          Committee of the Whole – Poplar Meeting Room #151
                   Garry Hrechkosy conducting.

Approval of Minutes
   Committee of the Whole – October 3, 2023
   Committee of the Whole – October 17, 2023

Discussion Items
    1. Presentation of the independent audit for Fiscal Year 2022-2023. Brenda Moore presenting (45
        minutes).
    2. Police Department Report. Craig Burnett presenting. (30 minutes)
    3. Discussion on a resolution adopting the regular meeting schedule for the Murray City Municipal
        Council for calendar year 2024. Jennifer Kennedy presenting. (10 minutes)
    4. Discussion on updated Policies and Procedures for the Murray City Council. Jennifer Kennedy
        presenting. (15 minutes)

Adjournment


NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City Recorder
(801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the other
Council Members and all other persons present in the Poplar Meeting Room will be able to hear all discussions.

On Thursday, November 9, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer
of the Murray City Hall, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City Recorder.
A copy of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing website at
http://pmn.utah.gov .




                                                                     Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                     Council Executive Director
                                                                     Murray City Municipal Council
 Committee
of the Whole
   Minutes
                                     MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                      COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                                            Meeting Minutes
                                        Tuesday, October 3, 2023
           Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Poplar Conference Room, Murray, Utah 84107
Attendance:
  Council Members and others:
  Garry Hrechkosy – Chair            District #5
  Rosalba Dominguez – Vice Chair     District #3
  David Rodgers                      District #1
  Pam Cotter                         District #2
  Diane Turner                       District #4


  Brett Hales        Mayor                            Jennifer Kennedy City Council Executive Director
  Greg Bellon        Power Director                   Pattie Johnson   Council Administration
  Tammy Kikuchi      Chief Communications Officer     Brooke Smith     City Recorder
  G.L. Critchfield   City Attorney                    Joey Mittelman Fire Chief
  Russ Kakala        Public Works Director            Phil Markham     CED Director
  Jeff Puls          Fire Marshal                     Loran Pasalich   Murray Chamber
  Jenn Kikel-Lynn    Murray Chamber                   Matt Gibbons     Murray Chamber
  Matt Youngs        Assistant Power Director         Rob White        IT Director
  Isaac Zenger       IT                               Citizens

Conducting: Council Member Hrechkosy called the meeting to order at 4:45 pm.

Approval of Minutes: Committee of the Whole – September 12, 2023. Council Member Dominguez
moved to approve, and Council Member Turner seconded the motion. All in favor 5-0.

Discussion Items:
• An ordinance amending the GP (General Plan) and Zoning Map from R-1-8 (Residential Single-
    Family) to R-M-15 (Multiple-Family Medium Density Residential) for the properties located at 770
    and 780 West 5300 South and 845 West Clover Meadow Drive.
    Murray City Planner Zach Smallwood said the property owner made the request to rezone the area
    with hopes to redevelop. An aerial map was displayed to point out 2.9 acres along 5300 South that is
    currently zoned for low density single-family residential. He said the Murray Planning Commission
    supported the change because it aligns with Initiative #3 in the GP (General Plan), which is to provide
    livable and vibrant neighborhoods away from an existing single-family neighborhood and to create a
    range of housing types. He noted the Future Land Use Map to confirm that a mix of housing types
    could be provided by changing the current designation to medium density. Staff also supports the
    rezone because the Utah Department of Transportation allowed access to the area from 5300 South.
    Future residents would enter a new neighborhood by turning right off 5300 South; and would exit the
    property by only a right turn.

    Staff felt the proposal to provide 35 housing units at the location is a great use of a vacant property
    and GP planning strategies for improving land use and urban design would be achieved. Several
    strategies were outlined to confirm that revitalization objectives would be met in the moderate-
    income housing section of the GP. He compared the existing lot requirements to the proposed R-M-
    15 zone, noted that public notice was given about the proposal, and reported few were in opposition
    at the public hearing. The planning commission voted 6-0 with a positive recommendation to the City
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of October 3, 2023                         DRAFT                                              Page 2



    Council.

•   An ordinance amending Section 3.10.110 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to the
    Procurement Code and the rules governing minimal and small purchases.
    City Recorder Brooke Smith said her goal to improve efficiencies, leverage buying power for City
    employees and adapt to market changes while maintaining transparency, was the reason she
    proposed to change the City’s existing procurement Code.

    Ms. Smith reviewed past and current procedures for making minimal purchases for things like
    operational supplies, professional services, construction work, building improvements, public works
    projects and Class C Road projects where the intention was to find the best value. It was noted that
    thresholds were increased in 2014 and 2017, but with significant inflation that started 10 years ago,
    combined with the pandemic, she and employees feel the $5,000 limit is no longer sufficient. She
    believed an increase would help make reasonable purchases easier when avoiding the procurement
    process.

    She compared City and State procurement Codes; reviewed all procurement options available to the
    City and shared a graph to reflect that inflation and cost of living expenses have affected buying power
    negatively. It was noted that since 2001 inflation sored the highest in 2022 and dollar values of 2001
    were noted much less than today’s dollar value. Ms. Smith discussed historical spending patterns. She
    reported cost increases where water meters increased by 118%, copper and brass parts up 61%, fire
    hydrants up 79%; and copper and brass tubing increased 48%. Pipes and valves inflated by 41% and
    other items related to water like meters, supplies, chlorine, fluoride, and wellhead maintenance rose
    as much as 598%; wastewater supplies saw inflation sore as much as 954%.

    Ms. Smith conducted market research to support her proposed threshold increases and suggested for
    Murray City’s no procurement necessary policy regarding operational and construction supplies and
    nonprofessional services purchases, the existing minimum of $5,000, should be raised to $10,000. She
    felt $10,000 would be sufficient but would not argue with an increase to $15,000, which would ensure
    another increase was not needed in five years.

    Mr. Hrechkosy asked about raising the amount to $25,000 for minimal purchases to give employees
    more ability to purchase supplies easier. There was consensus that $25,000 was reasonable.

    City Attorney G.L. Critchfield said efficiency and making money are related to the private sector and
    the City is totally different because the focus should be about accountability. The idea is not to make
    it easier for employees to make purchases, but to enforce transparency. He would support Ms. Smith’s
    proposal of $10,000 for now, with monitored outcomes, but the goal should not be to make spending
    simple. He stressed that showing transparency and accountability should be the goals of City Code,
    and he expressed concern with raising the amount to $25,000 for minimal purchases without
    procurement.

    Ms. Smith said in speaking with employees, they feel a limit of $15,000 would reduce buying
    challenges even more. Mr. Critchfield appreciated employee input, but said the matter was not a
    straw poll to be surveyed by employees for making purchasing easier. The City’s procurement code
    should not be compared to the State, so he advised not going above $10,000 which should be
    reevaluated in a few years. He said the competitive bidding process to get the best price, did not mean
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of October 3, 2023                       DRAFT                                            Page 3



    finding the easiest or quickest choice because that process is not the most accountable. There was
    new consensus.

•   A resolution approving the appropriation of money for corporate purposes based on findings
    pursuant to Section 10-8-2 of the Utah Code.
    City Council Executive Director Jennifer Kennedy confirmed that more time was given to the Council
    to review the applications. Current request amounts from the organizations were reviewed, and she
    provided a five-year historical monetary appropriations list reflecting amounts that organizations
    were given in past years. Results from the Bonneville research report were also reviewed, which
    concluded that the appropriations proposed to the non-profit entities were appropriate to accomplish
    the City’s goals and objectives. Council Members proceeded to review the application requests for:
      • Murray Symphony: $2,500
      • Murray Concert Band: $2,500
      • Ballet Center Utah: $3,000
      • Boys and Girls Club: $100,000
      • Murray Greenhouse Foundation: $25,000
      • Miss Murray Organization: $14,000
      • Murray Chamber of Commerce: $60,000

    After lengthy discussion, it was decided that Ms. Kennedy would reach out to some applicants about
    presenting a five-minute overview during the public hearing on October 17, 2023. Presentations
    should confirm what services they provide, what benefit there is to City residents, and how funds
    would be spent. Council Members concluded that the Boys and Girls Club and the Murray Chamber
    of Commerce would be asked to provide more information regarding current salary budgets. They
    would also need to review how Murray would benefit from requested donations. There was
    consensus that both entities were valuable to Murray City. The Miss Murray Organization would need
    to come prepared to explain why there was a significant increase from previous years.

    Mr. Critchfield reminded Council Members that applicants need only to explain how the community
    benefits from a donation. Ms. Cotter expressed concern about tax payer money being used wisely.
    Mr. Hrechkosy said understanding the makeup of giving to organizations like the Chamber of
    Commerce was important. Ms. Dominguez agreed transparency would be helpful, but growing
    businesses in Murray was equally important. Ms. Turner believed the City needs to understand where
    funding is going and questioned the conclusion statement in the study related to improving blighted
    areas. Mr. Hrechkosy noted that financial requests could be amended during the public hearing on
    October 17, 2023, should any amount need to be adjusted.

Adjournment: 6:00 p.m.
                                                              Pattie Johnson
                                                              Council Office Administrator III
                                     MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                       COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                              Work Session Minutes of Tuesday, October 17, 2023
                 Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Poplar Meeting Room, Murray, Utah 84107
                                   ______________________________________

Attendance:
  Council Members:
  David Rodgers          District #1
  Pam Cotter             District #2
  Rosalba Dominguez      District #3 – Vice-Chair – Excused
  Diane Turner           District #4
  Garry Hrechkosy        District #5 – Chair

    Others:

     Brett Hales      Mayor                                   Jennifer Kennedy City Council Executive Director
     Doug Hill        CAO (Chief Administrative Officer       Pattie Johnson   Council Administration
     G.L. Critchfield City Attorney                           Tammy Kikuchi    Chief Communications Officer
     Phil Markham     CED Director                            Brooke Smith     City Recorder
     Elvon Farrell    CED Specialist                          Joey Mittelman   Fire Chief
     Karen Gallegos Murray Courts Clerk                       Rob White         IT Director
     Isaac Zenger     IT                                      Citizens
     Anthony Semone NeighborWorks

Conducting: Council Member Hrechkosy called the meeting to order at 5:00 pm.

Approval of Minutes: Committee of the Whole – September 19, 2023.
 Council Member Rodgers moved to approve, and Council Member Cotter seconded the motion.
 All in favor 4-0.

Discussion Items:
• A resolution approving Mayor Hales' appointments to the Salt Lake County Justice Court Nominating
    Commission.
    Mayor Hales shared that he would like to appoint Murray Court Clerk Karen Gallegos and Murray City Attorney
    G.L. Critchfield to serve on the Salt Lake County Justice Court Nominating Commission. The commission would
    screen all applicants for the Murray judge position. Mayor Hales reminded Council Members that Judge
    Thompson would age out at 75 and retire in May of 2024. Mr. Critchfield explained the nominating
    commission would select up to five applicants from a pool of candidates for Mayor Hales to review. The Mayor
    would then have 30 days to choose one finalist who would then be presented to the Murray City Council for
    final consideration. Mayor Hales was hopeful that he would have a recommendation by April 2024.

•    ULCT Annual Convention Reports.
     Three Council Members, Mr. Rodgers, Ms. Cotter and Mr. Hrechkosy and Executive Director Ms. Kennedy
     went to the 2023 Utah League of Cities and Towns Annual Convention in Salt Lake City from September 6-8.
     Each person shared what they learned in the classes they attended.

Adjournment: 5:15 p.m.
                                                               Pattie Johnson
                                                               Council Office Administrator III
Discussion
   Items
Discussion
 Item #1
                                      &ŝŶĂŶĐĞ Θ ĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ

                                      Completion and Receipt of
                                      Independent Audit FY2022-2023

                                      ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ tŚŽůĞ Θ ŝƚǇ ŽƵŶĐŝů
Council Action Request
                                      DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗November 14, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Acknowledging completion and receipt of the independent audit
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ             for fiscal year 2022-2023.
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  ŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶ ŝŶ ĐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǁŚŽůĞ ĂŶĚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ Ă
801-264-2513             ƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ ŝŶ ĐŽƵŶĐŝů ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ͘
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         ZĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ

                    Budget Impact



                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        A PDF of the completed audit will be sent as soon as it is
Presentation             finalized. Printed materials will be available the day of the
                         meeting.
45

Is This Time             The resolution is an acknowledgment that the audit is complete
                         and you have received it and telling the Recorder to publish
Sensitive                notice of that fact.
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
October 30, 2023
                                  RESOLUTION R23-__

       A RESOLUTION TO ACKNOWLEDGE COMPLETION AND RECEIPT OF
       THE INDEPENDENT AUDIT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022-2023 AND DIRECT
       THAT NOTICE BE PUBLISHED PURSUANT TO SECTION 10-6-152 OF
       THE UTAH CODE.

       WHEREAS, sections 10-6-151, 51-2a-201 and 51-2a-202 of the Utah Code require
the City to have, at least annually, an independent audit of its accounts by a certified
public accountant; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to section 10-6-152 of the Utah Code, within ten (10) days
following receipt of the independent audit, the City is required to publish notice advising
the public that the audit is complete and available for inspection; and

      WHEREAS, the City retained HBME, LLC, a certified public accountants, to do an
independent audit of the City’s accounts for fiscal year 2022-2023; and

        WHEREAS, HBME has completed the independent audit of the City’s accounts for
fiscal year 2022-2023; and

      WHEREAS, HBME has presented the independent audit to the Mayor and Murray
City Municipal Council; and

       WHEREAS, the Murray City Municipal Council wants to acknowledge receipt of
the completed audit and order that notice be published pursuant to section 10-6-152 of
the Utah Code.

       NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council as
follows:

        It hereby acknowledges that the independent audit of the City’s accounts for fiscal
year 2022-2023 has been completed by HBME and submitted to the Murray City
Municipal Council. As required by section 10-6-152 of the Utah Code, the City Recorder
is directed to publish notice, advising the public that the independent audit is complete
and available for inspection.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this            day of        2023.

                                          MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL




                                          Garry Hrechkosy, Chair
ATTEST:




Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Discussion
 Item #2
                                   DƵƌƌĂǇ ŝƚǇ ŽƵŶĐŝů

                                   Report from the Police Department


                                   Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗November 14, 2023


Department           Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Monthly Department Report
Jennifer Kennedy
                     Action Requested
Phone #                  Information only.
801-264-2622
                     Attachments
Presenters
Craig Burnett

                     Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                     Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation             The Police Department will provide an update on their
                         department.
30 Minutes

Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
September 20, 2023
Discussion
 Item #3
                                   City Council

                                   2024 Council Meeting Schedule


                                   Committee of the Whole and Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗November 14, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Set the 2024 City Council Meeting Schedule.
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ<ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Approve resolution.
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Proposed resolution, proposed schedule and list of
Jennifer Kennedy         anticipated 2024 events.
                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation             Review and adopt the City Council meeting schedule for 2024.



Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
October 26, 2023
                              RESOLUTION NO. _____


      A RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE REGULAR MEETING SCHEDULE OF
      THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL FOR CALENDAR YEAR
      2024.

      BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council as follows:

      1.     The regular meeting schedule of the Murray City Municipal Council for
calendar year 2024 shall be as provided in the attached.

      2.     The Murray City Municipal Council reserves the right to change the
schedule or cancel any meetings it deems necessary consistent with the Utah Open
and Public Meetings Act.

      3.     The City Recorder is directed to publish the attached schedule.

      PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council of
Murray City, Utah, this day of November, 2023.


                                        MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                        _____________________________________
                                        Garry Hrechkosy, Chair

ATTEST:



_______________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
ATTACHMENT
               MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                  2024 MEETING SCHEDULE
                    Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South

                       COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                       COUNCIL MEETING 6:30 p.m.



Tuesday, January 2                           Tuesday, July 2
Tuesday, January 16                          Tuesday, July 16

Tuesday, February 6                          Tuesday, August 6
Tuesday, February 20                         Tuesday, August 13

Tuesday, March 5                             Tuesday, September 3
Tuesday, March 19                            Tuesday, September 17

Tuesday, April 2                             Tuesday, October 1
Tuesday, April 16                            Tuesday, October 15

Tuesday, May 7                               Tuesday, November 5
Tuesday, May 21                              Tuesday, November 19

Tuesday, June 4                              Tuesday, December 3
Tuesday, June 18                             Tuesday, December 10
                         2024 City Council Conferences & Events



Meetings

January 10, 2024       Murray City School Coordinating Council (Second Wednesday)
April 10, 2024         Murray City School Coordinating Council (Second Wednesday)
October 9, 2024        Murray City School Coordinating Council (Second Wednesday)


Conferences and Events
January 2024           ULCT Local Officials Day at the Legislature
February 25-29, 2024   APPA Legislative Rally
March 11-13, 2024      National League of Cities, Washington, DC
April 17-19, 2024      ULCT Mid-Year Conference (St. George)
May 19-21, 2024        ICSC (Las Vegas, NV)
June 6-11, 2024        APPA National Conference (New Orleans, LA)
August 20-22, 2024     UAMPS Conference (tentative)
September 4-5, 2024    ULCT Annual Convention (Salt Palace Convention Center)


Budget Process

January/February       Mid-Year Budget Review (Date TBD)
May 7, 2024            CM - Mayor’s Budget (Last date allowed by State Statute - can be earlier)
May 13-18, 2024        Budget Review with Departments & Reconciliation (Dependent upon receipt of
                       Mayor’s Budget.)
May 21, 2024           CM - Adopt Tentative Council Budget & Set Public Hearing
June 4, 2024           CM - Budget Public Hearing
June 18, 2024          CM - Adopt Final FY 2024-2024 Budgets (June 30 – last date allowed by State
                       Statute, unless Truth in Taxation Hearing for property tax increase)
August 2024            Truth in Taxation Meeting (if needed – Date TBD)


Miscellaneous
July 4, 2024           Murray Fun Day
December 2024          Council Holiday Party for Employees
December 2024          Intermountain Power Association annual meeting & luncheon
December 2024   UAMPS meeting and dinner
Discussion
 Item #4
                                     City Council

                                    Updated Policies and Procedures


                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                     DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗November 14, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Discuss City Hall Policies
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ <ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Information and discussion
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Updated Policies and Procedures, Council Rules, and Council
Jennifer Kennedy         Handbook
                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        In an effort to streamline some of the processes in the council
Presentation             office and simplify training for councilmembers, I have combined
                         the council rules, the council handbook, and policies that have
15 Minutes               been adopted by the council into one document titled Murray
Is This Time             City Municipal Council Policies and Procedures Handbook. I
                         believe having this information together in one document makes
Sensitive                it easier for both staff and councilmembers.
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
October 31, 2023
Murray City
Council
P O L I C I E S A N D
P R O C E D U R E S
                                             Foreword

The Murray City Municipal Council Policies and Procedures Handbook (“Handbook”) provides information,
guidelines, and procedures to Murray City Councilmembers regarding their duties and responsibilities.
This Handbook shall be the governing document of the Murray City Municipal Council (“Council”).

Failure to follow the guidelines provided in this Handbook shall not invalidate any action taken by the
Council or be deemed a violation of any law. Unless required by law, the Council may, at times, suspend
the application of certain guidelines provided in this Handbook by a two-thirds majority vote of
councilmembers present.

The Council shall adopt this Handbook in a regular Council meeting.

Any member of the Council may propose amendments to the Handbook. Amendments shall be submitted
in writing to all councilmembers and the council executive director. Amendments shall be approved by a
two-thirds majority vote of the entire Council in a regular Council Meeting.

It is the intent of the Council to review and revise the contents of the Handbook as needed or at least
once every two years.

This Handbook was comprehensively updated and approved by the Council on (Enter Date) and shall
remain in effect unless amended otherwise by the Council. This Handbook supersedes and replaces all
prior versions of the Murray City Municipal Council Handbook, Rules of the Murray City Municipal Council,
or any other policy and/or procedure referenced herein.




Adoption and Amendments
Adopted:
                             Table of Contents

Murray City’s Form of Government…………………………………………………………………………………………………………1
Powers and Duties of the Mayor……………………..………………………………………………………………………………………2
Powers and Duties of the City Council……….……………………………………………………………………………….……………3
Municipal Elections………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….………………5
Vacancy in an Elected Office…………………………………………………………………………………………………….……………..6
Governance…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….7
Council Leadership…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….……9
Communicating with the Media…………………………………………………………………………………………………………….11
Committees…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..12
Land Use…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..……14
Budget Oversight and Process……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….15
Audit………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….….17
Meetings…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..…………..18
Council Meeting Agenda Submission Process…..……………………………………………………………………………………23
Council Meeting Agenda Order of Business…………………………………………………………………………………….…….25
City Council Office…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….……29
Ethics…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….32
Risk Assessment…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….33
Discrimination and Harassment…………………………………………………………………………………………………………….34
Appendices…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………...35
                           Murray City’s Form of Government

A city or town is a creation and subdivision of the State of Utah and has only those powers specifically
given to them by an act of the state legislature. In Utah there are a series of enabling acts, which give
specific duties and authority to cities and towns. These duties and authority can be found in Title 10 of
the Utah Code.

Murray City is a Second Class city that was initially created as a Mayor-Council form of government upon
incorporation in 1903. In 1911, a State law changed the form of government for cities of the First and
Second Class in Utah from the old council form of government to the Commission form of government.
This form was reversed in 1981, by a city election when the City adopted the Mayor-Council form of
government (Utah Code 10-3b-201). The government of Murray City includes an elected mayor and five
elected city councilmembers. In 2008, the legislature repealed the Optional Forms of Municipal
Government Act and recodified the provisions in what is now called the Forms of Municipal Government.
Municipalities that had previously adopted the Mayor-Council form of government continue on in the
new Council-Mayor form of government. Other municipalities with the Council-Mayor form of
government include Logan, Ogden, Marriott-Slaterville, Salt Lake City, South Salt Lake City, Taylorsville
City, Sandy City, Provo City, and West Jordan City.

The Council-Mayor form of government vests power in two separate, independent, and equal branches
that mimic Utah and the United States government with inherent checks and balances. Murray City also
operates its own Justice Court.
The Mayor is the chief executive and administrative officer of the municipality and exercises supervision
over the executive and administrative departments and divisions of the City.

The City Council exercises the legislative powers of the City and are elected from five separate geographic
council districts within the City. Each council district has substantially equal population.




                                                                                                         1
                            Powers and Duties of the Mayor

The Mayor in a municipality operating under the Council-Mayor form of government is the chief executive
and administrative officer of the municipality and exercises the executive and administrative powers and
performs or supervises the performance of the executive and administrative duties and functions of the
municipality (Utah Code 10-3b-202).

The Mayor shall:

   •   Enforce the laws of the City.
   •   Execute the policies adopted by the Council.
   •   Supervise employees of the City, except for the staff to the Council.
   •   Exercise control of all departments and divisions of the City.
   •   Hire and make all appointments of the City administration, officers, department directors,
       committees, boards, and commissions, subject to the Council’s advice and consent where
       required by state law. Reports any dismissal to the Council.
   •   Prepare the annual City budget.
   •   Keep the Council informed as to the needs and financial condition of the City, including an annual
       report of the City’s affairs.
   •   Issue administrative regulations and general procedures that are not in conflict with city or state
       laws.
   •   Inform the Council of changes in programs, regulations, and procedures.

The Mayor may:

   •   Appoint a chief administrative officer; and one or more deputies or administrative assistants to
       the mayor.
   •   Create any other administrative office that the mayor considers necessary for good government
       of the municipality and appoint a person to the office.
   •   Dismiss any person appointed by the mayor.
   •   Veto an ordinance, tax levy, or appropriation passed by the Council.
   •   Attend each council meeting, take part in council meeting discussions, and freely give advice to
       the council.

The Mayor under the Council-Mayor form of government does not vote or chair the meetings of the
Council.




                                                                                                        2
                         Powers and Duties of the City Council

The Council in a municipality operating under the Council-Mayor form of government is the legislative
body of the City (Utah Code 10-3b-203).

The Council shall:

    •   Exercise the legislative powers of the City.
    •   Pass ordinances and resolutions.
    •   Prescribe general policies to be followed by the Mayor in exercising executive power.
    •   Appropriate funds by setting appropriate tax levies for general City and library services.
    •   Adopt the City budget.
    •   Review municipal administration.
    •   Establish sewer, water, storm water, and power rates.
    •   Set other general tax and service rates.
    •   By ordinance, provide for the manner in which City property is bought, sold, traded, encumbered,
        or otherwise transferred.
    •   Provide for the manner in which a subdivision or annexation is approved, disapproved, or
        otherwise regulated.
    •   Supervise, appoint, direct, and establish job descriptions and compensation for council office
        staff.
    •   Give advice and consent to the mayor on all proposed appointments of department directors,
        statutory officers, boards, commissions, committees, or other bodies established to provide
        advice or assistance to the operation of the City.

The Council may:

    •   Review and monitor the city administration, conduct public hearings, and perform other duties as
        authorized by state law.
    •   Create, consolidate, or abolish departments; and define or alter the functions and duties of each
        department.
    •   Appoint a committee of councilmembers or citizens to conduct an investigation into a department
        of the City; or any other matter relating to the welfare of the City.
    •   Make and enforce any additional rule or regulation for its internal operations, the preservation of
        order, and the transaction of the council’s business that it considers necessary.
    •   Notwithstanding Section 2.04.030(C)(2) of the city code, make recommendations to any City
        employee.
    •   Reconsider a mayor’s veto at the next meeting following such veto. The council approves the
        action by a two-thirds majority of all councilmembers for the ordinance, tax levy or appropriation
        to take effect.

A councilmember may not:

    •   Have any other compensated employment with the City.



                                                                                                         3
    •   Interfere in any way with a City employee’s performance, other than council staff, or publicly or
        privately give orders to a City employee of the mayor.

Councilmembers represent the City and the council through public appearances, media communications,
and speaking engagements. Councilmembers should always clarify whether they are acting in a council
capacity or as private individuals.

Additionally, when a councilmember is responding to a question, it is important to publicly note that a
council majority is required for any council action. When discussing the enforcement or interpretation of
an existing City policy or ordinance, councilmembers should refer to the appropriate administrative staff
for the most accurate information.




                                                                                                       4
                                        Municipal Elections

All five councilmembers are elected from geographical council districts. Councilmembers are elected for
terms of four years, which are staggered. Elections for council districts 1, 3, and 5, shall be held in the year
preceding a presidential election year. Council districts 2 and 4 along with the mayoral election shall be
held in the year following a year in which a presidential election was held. All municipal elections are held
in odd-numbered years and are considered non-partisan.

Council Staff During Elections
   • To assure appropriate separation between council staff and councilmember campaigns during
        municipal elections, the council staff shall remain removed from the municipal election process.

    •   Council staff shall refer calls and emails about the election directly to the City’s Election Officer
        unless information is readily available to immediately answer the request.

    •   Calls or emails relating to specific campaign events will be forwarded to the candidate or the
        candidate’s designee.

    •   Council staff shall not engage in any election campaign related activities while fulfilling their duties
        as a City employee.




                                                                                                              5
                                 Vacancy in an Elected Office

Councilmember
If a councilmember vacates their seat on the council before the term of office expires, the council shall fill
the vacant seat, as provided by State Law and City ordinance, and in accordance with the following rules:

    1. Applicants shall be qualified for the office in accordance with all applicable State Laws and City
       ordinances.
    2. Applicants shall complete an application form available through the city council office.
    3. Within thirty (30) days of the occurrence and declaration of such vacancy, the council shall appoint
       a qualified resident of the City and the appropriate council district to fill the unexpired term. This
       shall occur in a duly noticed council meeting.

Mayor
If the mayor vacates their office before the term of office expires, the council shall fill that office, as
provided by State Law and City ordinance, and in accordance with the following rules:

    1. Applicants shall be qualified for the office in accordance with all applicable State Laws and City
       ordinances.
    2. Applicants shall complete an application form available through the council office.
    3. The council shall, within thirty (30) days of the occurrence and declaration of such vacancy,
       appoint a qualified resident of the City to fill the unexpired term. This shall occur in a duly noticed
       council meeting.
    4. The council chair shall become the acting mayor until the vacancy in the office of the mayor is
       filled by the council as described above.




                                                                                                            6
                                            Governance

Ordinances
The council exercises its lawmaking power by passing ordinances (UCA 10-3-701). Ordinances may be
initiated by either the council or the administration.

Resolutions
In addition to its legislative powers, the council also holds certain defined administrative powers (UCA 10-
3-717). These powers are generally exercised by resolution including:

    •   establishing water and sewer rates.
    •   establishing fees for City services.
    •   establishing council personnel policies and guidelines.
    •   regulating the use and operation of City property.

Council Initiatives
Councilmembers may sponsor proposed legislation. To bring an item forward for council consideration, a
councilmember must:

    •   Consult with the council executive director.
    •   Conduct research.
    •   Work with the council executive director to determine process and timing.
    •   Present the item in a Committee of the Whole Meeting or Council Workshop for discussion and
        to determine councilmember’s support.
    •   Work with the city attorney’s office on a proposed ordinance or resolution.
    •   Present the item to the council for consideration at a Council Meeting.

Administrative issues
Research is conducted by the departments in conjunction with the mayor. Ordinances and/or resolutions
are created before being presented to the council.

Advice and Consent
Certain positions are appointed by the mayor with advice and consent of the council. Upon presentation
to the council of an appointment, the council must either approve or reject the mayor’s appointment. The
process to appoint department directors, the city engineer, the city treasurer, and the city recorder is as
follows:

    •   The mayor forwards a proposed appointment to the council with application, resume, and
        references.
    •   The council may schedule an open or closed session to interview the candidate before advice and
        consent is considered.
    •   Following the interview, council advice and consent will be determined in an open council
        meeting.

The process to appoint representatives to quasi-governmental boards and City boards and commissions
is as follows:

                                                                                                          7
    •   The Council may conduct advice and consent based on applications and resumes.

Review of Municipal Administration
The Council may exercise its oversight role of the city administration by conducting management,
performance and service reviews that may target a particular department or program. The scope of the
review may include examination of efficient and effective service levels, the effectiveness of programs or
departments.

Proposed reviews can be placed on a Committee of the Whole or Council Workshop agenda for council
discussion.

Internal reviews may include members of the council and administration on a review team.

If an outside consultant is used, the city procurement ordinance shall be followed. The council shall have
the final decision regarding consultant selection for the review process.

    •   The administration should be informed of the council’s concerns.
    •   A steering committee should be established with councilmembers and appropriate staff to assist
        in the review process.
    •   The details and objectives of the review shall be discussed and a timeline established.
    •   Interim meetings of the steering committee and consultant may be necessary.
    •   A final draft of the consultants’ findings should be prepared and presented at a Committee of the
        Whole meeting.
    •   Once the final report has been presented to the council, the mayor will have an opportunity to
        respond to the recommendations and outline how the recommendations may be implemented.

Requests for Information
Councilmembers or council committees may request information from the mayor.

The mayor is required to inform the council regarding financial and operational conditions of the City. A
mayor’s report to the council is customarily given at the end of each council meeting. Additionally, the
mayor sends a weekly “Council Communication” updating the council on City matters.

The city attorney and finance director serve both the council and the mayor. Requests from these
departments do not need to go through the mayor. Requests to other department directors or staff
members are inappropriate and considered a violation of separation of powers.

Removal from Office
In case any municipal officer shall at any time willfully omit to perform any duty, or willfully and corruptly
be guilty of oppression, malconduct, misfeasance, or malfeasance in office, the person is guilty of a class
A misdemeanor, shall be removed from office, and is not eligible for any municipal office thereafter (UCA
10-3-826).




                                                                                                            8
                                         Council Leadership

At the first Council meeting of each year, the Council will elect a council chair and a council vice-chair as
well as a Budget and Finance Committee chair and vice-chair for the calendar year.

Chair and Vice-Chair Election Process
Upon reaching the agenda item for conducting Council elections, whichever councilmember is conducting
the meeting will call for nominations from councilmembers for each Council leadership position.

Nominations need not be seconded. After nominations have concluded, councilmembers proceed to
voting. Traditionally, voting is by roll call, but other methods found in the Robert’s Rules of Order may be
used as determined by the council chair. Elections take effect immediately after the vote is finalized.

Council Chair and Vice-Chair
Council chair – A councilmember may not serve more than two consecutive calendar years as the council
chair.

The council chair’s responsibilities are as follows:

    •   Presides at all council meetings, except upon delegating or sharing limited conducting
        responsibilities with the other four councilmembers. The presiding officer at council meetings
        shall be rotated monthly among councilmembers according to district.
    •   Sets the council meeting agendas.
    •   Signs all ordinances, resolutions, and other official documents on behalf of the council.
    •   Communicates official position statements that have been approved by the council and is the
        spokesperson to the media, public, and for official publications.
    •   Acts as a liaison to the mayor on the council’s behalf.
    •   Disseminates information from the mayor.
    •   Conducts Committee of the Whole and workshop meetings.
    •   Supervises council staff as detailed in the Handbook.

Council Vice-Chair – The council vice-chair shall be the presiding council officer in the temporary absence
of the council chair in the event that the council chair is incapacitated due to illness or is otherwise unable
to attend council meetings and shall sign as the council chair on all ordinances, resolutions, and official
correspondence.

Vacancy in Office of Council Chair
In the event that the council chair shall vacate their office for any reason before the term has expired, the
council vice-chair shall become council chair for the remainder of that term.

Vacancy in the Office of Vice-Chair
In the event that the council vice-chair shall vacate their office for any reason before their term has
expired, the councilmembers, by a simple majority vote, shall elect a council vice-chair to complete the
term at the first regular council meeting following the vacancy announcement.

Budget and Finance Committee Chair and Vice-Chair

                                                                                                             9
Budget and Finance Committee Chair – Councilmembers may not serve more than two consecutive
calendar years as the Budget and Finance Committee chair.

The Budget and Finance Committee chair’s responsibilities are as follows:

    •   Presiding officer of the Budget and Finance Committee meetings.
    •   Approves the agenda for the Budget and Finance Committee meetings.
    •   Coordinates the review and recommendations for annual budget meetings, and financial reports.
    •   Serves on the Audit Committee.
    •   Other responsibilities relating to budget and finance.

The Budget and Finance Committee vice-chair serves in the absence of the Budget and Finance Committee
chair.

Vacancy in the Office of Budget and Finance Committee Chair
In the event that the Budget and Finance Committee chair shall vacate their office for any reason before
their term has expired, the Budget and Finance Committee vice-chair shall become Budget and Finance
Committee chair for the remainder of that term.

Vacancy in the Office of Budget and Finance Committee Vice-Chair
In the event that the Budget and Finance Committee vice-chair shall vacate their office for any reason
before their term has expired, the Budget and Finance Committee members, by a simple majority vote,
shall elect a Budget and Finance Committee vice-chair to complete the term at the first regular Budget
and Finance Committee meeting following the vacancy announcement.




                                                                                                     10
                             Communicating with the Media

The council chair is the official spokesperson for the City Council and represents the Council to the news
media for legislative matters. When possible, the council chair should check with other councilmembers
before making or releasing a statement to the media.

Individual councilmembers may meet with media representatives or media editorial boards; however,
individual councilmembers who meet with media representatives or media editorial boards shall make it
clear that the opinions presented are their own by indicating that they are speaking on their own behalf,
rather than on behalf of the City or the full Council body.

When a media representative contacts the Council to request an interview with a councilmember on an
issue that relates to the entire Council, the media representative should be directed to the council chair
unless the Chair is unavailable then the media representative will be directed to:

    •   the vice-chair; or
    •   if the vice-chair is unavailable, the next senior councilmember by terms served.

Council Staff may prepare material and information to assist councilmembers with media requests
pertaining to City and legislative issues.




                                                                                                       11
                                          Committees

Committees
The council shall have two standing committees: (1) Committee of the Whole and (2) Budget and Finance
Committee. Councilmembers will also participate in a number of other committees.

   1. Committee of the Whole – Made up of the entire membership of the council.
         • Less formal venue typically used as an educational forum.
         • Questions of the presenter are encouraged.
         • Direction may be requested of the council.
         • Presentations are first heard in a Committee of the Whole meeting before consideration
            is given in a council meeting.
         • Council committee appointments may be discussed in a Committee of the Whole
            meeting.

   2. Budget and Finance Committee – Made up of the entire membership of the council.
         • Convenes to review the annual budget appropriations and revenue for the City.
         • May convene for other budgetary reports and explanations.

   3. Other Committees – Other committees may be formed as necessary by majority vote of the
      council. Membership, responsibilities, and goals shall be assigned when committee is formed.

   4. Municipal Building Authority (MBA) – Made up entirely of councilmembers. An annual meeting is
      usually held in November each year to elect officers for the ensuing year. Other meetings may be
      called as necessary.

   5. Redevelopment Agency (RDA) – Councilmembers serve as the Board of the RDA. The mayor is the
      executive director of the RDA and may delegate responsibilities. The RDA meets on the third
      Tuesday of every month.

   6. Board of Canvassers – The mayor and council are the Board of Canvassers for Murray City. The
      canvassing of returns from a municipal election shall be done no sooner than seven (7) days and
      no later than fourteen (14) days after an election. A simple majority constitutes a quorum.

   7. Murray City School Coordinating Council – Members of the CSCC consist of the Murray School
      Board and Murray City Council. The purpose of this council is to share of information between the
      City and the school district. This council meets three times a year.

   8. Outside Committees – The council will determine membership in outside committees at the first
      council meeting of the year. These committees include, Association of Municipal Councils, Utah
      League of Cities and Towns Legislative Policy Committee, and the Chamber of Commerce Board.

Other committees may be formed as necessary by majority vote of the Council. Membership,
responsibilities, and goals shall be assigned when committee is formed.



                                                                                                    12
Interlocal Boards with Murray Representation
These appointments are made by the mayor with advice and consent by the council, with exception of
the last three listed below.

   •   Utah Association of Municipal Power Systems (UAMPS)
   •   Intermountain Power Agency (IPA)
   •   Trans Jordan Cities
   •   Utah Telecommunications Open Infrastructure Agency (UTOPIA)
   •   Utah Infrastructure Agency (UIA)
   •   Jordan River Commission
   •   Valley Emergency Communications Center (VECC)
   •   Metro Fire
   •   Central Valley Water Reclamation
   •   Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)
   •   NeighborWorks
   •   Council of Governments (Mayor)
   •   Association of Municipal Councils (councilmember)
   •   Chamber of Commerce Board (councilmember)
   •   Utah League of Cities and Towns Legislative Policy Committee (mayor and councilmember)

Murray City Advisory Boards
Murray City Advisory Boards are boards and commissions that are established by city ordinance.
Appointments are made by the mayor with advice and consent by the council.

   •   Arts Advisory Board
   •   Building Board of Appeals
   •   Ethics Commission
   •   Hearing Officers (Land Use Appeals)
   •   History Advisory Board
   •   Murray Library Board of Directors
   •   Murray City Center District Design Review Committee
   •   Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
   •   Personnel Advisory Board
   •   Planning Commission
   •   Senior Recreation Center Advisory Board
   •   Shade Tree Commission

South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement District – A Murray City representative to the Board of
Trustees must be appointed by the council for a four (4) year term. The last appointment was made in
March of 2022.




                                                                                                 13
                                              Land Use

Utah municipalities have been granted broad powers to control land use and development by the Utah
State Legislature (UCA 10-9a-102). In part the statute reads:

“The purposes of this chapter are to provide for the health, safety, and welfare and promote the
prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of each
municipality and its present and future inhabitants and businesses, to protect the tax base………………….”

However, that power is limited by the procedures you have to follow to exercise the power of both state
and federal statutory and constitutional law. As a councilmember you will likely consider:

    •   General Plan adoption or amendments
    •   Land Use ordinance text amendments
    •   Rezoning applications
    •   Vacation of City property
    •   Surplus of City property
    •   Annexations

These actions are public hearings so that citizens may provide input on the decisions to be made. Public
Hearings have very specific noticing requirements. The city process includes:

    •   Applications taken by the Community and Economic Development Department
    •   Staff meetings to determine feasibility, infrastructure, transportation impacts, surrounding land
        use, etc.
    •   Staff recommendation
    •   Planning Commission hearing
    •   Possibility of city advisory board review
    •   City Council Committee of the Whole meeting discussion
    •   City Council meeting public hearing and consideration

These are very challenging issues not to be taken lightly. Most often the council is making decisions
affecting a landowner’s private property interests and balancing that with what is in the best interests of
the city. Be conscience of public clamor and ex parte communication.




                                                                                                        14
                               Budget Oversight and Process

Each fiscal year (July 1 – June 30) the council has the responsibility to adopt the annual city budget
including the capital improvement program allocations. The budget is one of the council’s strongest policy
making tools. Each year the council expresses its priorities through annual city budget appropriations. A
good budget can be used as a planning tool because it conveys what the government expects to
accomplish during the coming year. Ultimately, the budget should be a reflection of policy priorities, a
financial operating plan, and a tool for communicating with the public about how money is spent.

Early in the calendar year, the council may meet with the finance director to discuss revenue forecasts
and expenditure priorities for the coming year. The finance director will relay this information in meetings
with the mayor as they prepare the mayor’s budget.

The mayor works with the finance director and department directors to determine appropriate funding
of public service levels, personnel costs, operations of city departments, operations and maintenance of
city facilities and equipment, capital improvement projects, and proposed revenue and reserve balances.

Prior to adopting the annual budget, the council receives the mayor’s tentative (proposed) annual budget.
As provided in State Code (UCA 10-6-111), the mayor’s tentative budget must be submitted to the council
by the first regular council meeting in May. The council is charged with determining if the mayor’s
tentative annual budget reflects an appropriate funding balance of public service levels, personnel costs,
creation and operation of city departments, operation and maintenance of city facilities and equipment,
level of city reserves, and capital improvement projects.

The council has the right to adjust, in whole or in part, the mayor’s tentative budget. The council, acting
as the Budget and Finance Committee, will meet with each department director to review budgets and
make adjustments.

The council’s tentative budget will be adopted during a council meeting in May and a public hearing will
be set for a council meeting in June.

As provided in State Code, if transfers from enterprise funds are included in the budget a notice must be
sent to utility customers and a separate public hearing must be held.

As provided in State Code, a budget public hearing shall be held in June. Changes to the tentative budget
may be made following the public hearing and before the final budget is adopted.

Unless the council sets a Truth in Taxation hearing to consider changing the property tax rate, the final
adoption of the city Budget must occur before June 30.

The process changes if a property tax increase is proposed in the budget. If a property tax increase is under
consideration as part of the budget process, the council must provide notice of and hold a public hearing
before adopting the tax increase. Pending adoption of a final budget, the city may operate on the
approved tentative budget or on the previous year’s final budget if readopted by resolution. A Truth in
Taxation public hearing will be set by the county. Following the public hearing on the tax increase, the
final budget will be adopted. The deadline to adopt the final budget is September 1 of the budget year.

                                                                                                          15
A property tax levy for the city and the Murray Library shall be adopted by the council.

Appropriations may not exceed estimated revenue in the final budget.




                                                                                           16
                                                 Audit

Annual Audit and Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR)
The city is required to have an annual independent audit or review of the city’s basic financial statements
and ACFR to determine whether the city’s financial reporting accurately reflects the financial condition of
the city and is prepared in conformity with criteria established by Generally Accepted Audit Standards,
Government Auditing Standards, the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, and General Guidance Audits
for State, Local Governments and Non-Profit Organizations.

The financial audit shall be completed, presented to the council, and submitted to the State Auditor before
December 31 of each year.

The council is responsible for hiring the audit firm as set forth in the Handbook of the Murray City Council
and according to the City procurement ordinance. Upon expiration of a financial audit agreement, the
council shall work with the council executive director, city recorder/purchasing agent, and finance and
administration director to create a Request for Proposals (RFP) to provide auditing services.

The council will form an Audit Committee to review and score proposals and recommend an independent
audit firm to the council for consideration. The Audit Committee shall consist of the Budget and Finance
Committee chair and vice-chair and the council executive director as staff support. This committee shall
convene for the following reasons:

    •   During the selection of the audit firm
    •   Annually to review audit procedures and conclusions, and
    •   For any other such purposes as the council deems appropriate




                                                                                                         17
                                               Meetings

State Code has some mandatory rules for meeting procedures that municipalities must comply with.

    •   All councils are required to adopt some rules of procedure.
    •   Cities and towns must pass an ordinance prescribing council meetings. A regular council meeting
        must be held at least once a month.
    •   The annual meeting schedule shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation detailing
        the date, time, and location of regular meetings. In general council meetings are on the first and
        third Tuesdays of the month.
    •   All meetings of the Legislative body in any municipality are required to follow the Open and Public
        Meeting Act (UCA 52-4-101), which specifies limited reasons for closing a meeting.
    •   The minimum public notice for a Council meeting is 24 hours with the agenda, time, and place
        detailed. There is a provision for emergency meetings.
    •   The council shall conduct its meeting according to the most current edition of Robert’s Rules of
        Order.

The council shall meet in council meetings, closed meetings, workshops, retreats and committee meetings
as provided by State Law. As provided by city ordinance, the council shall meet for council and committee
meetings at the following times and places:

    •   Committee of the Whole – The first and third Tuesdays of each month at a time determined by
        the council chair, unless cancelled by the council chair.
    •   Budget and Finance Committee – As approved by the council.
    •   Council Meeting – The first and third Tuesdays of each month at 6:30 p.m., (or otherwise at a time
        determined by the council) in the Council Chambers at the Murray City Center, unless cancelled
        by the council chair.

Meeting Decorum
Decorum is a high priority for all government processes and meetings. Maintaining respect for all involved
in the process is paramount. When someone is addressing the council or councilmembers are discussing
a matter, they have the floor and are entitled to be fully heard. Hissing, applause, loud sighing, shaking
ones’ head in agreement or disagreement, talking to others, or distracting any participant is a discourtesy
to the process. In the spirit of impartiality, due process, safety, and the preservation of decorum, citizens
and councilmembers alike should never show an outward response to debate, comments, or
presentations during council meetings. It is the responsibility of the conducting officer to safeguard the
decorum of council meetings.

Quorum
A quorum is the number of councilmembers that must be present to legally transact business. In Murray
City, a quorum is three (3) councilmembers.

Request for Council Action
A Council Action Log is kept with future council topics scheduled by meeting. The council executive
director meets weekly with the administration to review and add items to the Council Action Log.


                                                                                                          18
A Council Action Request Form is submitted to council staff prior to the preliminary agenda preparation.
The form, along with any supporting documentation, is processed in the council office and placed on a
council meeting agenda for consideration.

Land use matters follow a slightly different process with land use packets coming directly to council staff
from Community and Economic Development following Planning Commission review.

Agenda Process
Agendas are prepared by council staff and approved by the council chair.

    •   Business items are scheduled for a Committee of the Whole discussion prior to council
        consideration in a Council meeting. The Committee of the Whole is an educational forum.
    •   Preliminary agendas and supporting documents are distributed to councilmembers
        approximately eleven (11) days prior to the meeting.
    •   Councilmembers may request more information or ask to postpone a business item until their
        request is satisfied.
    •   The final agenda will be noticed according to the Open and Public Meetings Act requirements and
        final documents will be distributed to councilmembers the Friday prior to a Tuesday meeting.
    •   Councilmembers may not act on any topic that was not previously noticed on the Council meeting
        agenda.
    •   Order of business is detailed in the Murray City Council Handbook.
    •   The presiding officer at Council meetings shall be rotated monthly among councilmembers
        according to district.

Electronic Means of Meeting Participation
Section 52-4-207 of the Utah Code Annotated authorizes public bodies to hold meetings electronically by
means of a telephonic, telecommunications or computer conference. Councilmembers may participate
in Council meetings by electronic communication under the following conditions:

    •   The meeting will be held with a quorum, three (3) councilmembers, physically present.
    •   Electronic means will be used only for a declared city emergency or to accommodate
        councilmembers who are traveling outside the city.
    •   The meeting will be held within city limits at a facility that allows the public to attend, monitor
        and participate in open portions of the meeting.
    •   Comments of councilmembers participating electronically will be audible to the public.
    •   As with any public meeting, electronic meetings must be properly noticed in compliance with the
        Utah Open and Public Meetings Act. Additionally, the notice must inform the public that electronic
        means will be used and how councilmembers will be electronically connected to the meeting.

Voting
To approve or change an ordinance or resolution, or take action on any item, three (3) or more
councilmembers must vote together. State law requires a roll call vote to be taken and recorded for all
ordinances, resolutions, or any other action. Roll call will be taken by an aye (yes) or nay (no) vote. Council
consideration may include:

    •   Approve an action with a positive majority vote.
    •   Deny an action item with a negative vote.

                                                                                                            19
    •   Take no action with no motion or second.
    •   Continue an item to a future specified date with a majority vote, which may affect the validity of
        the current legal notice.
    •   Refer an item to a Committee of the Whole, workshop, council committee, convene an ad hoc
        committee, or refer to council or mayor staff for more information. It is typical to designate a
        “report back to the council” date.

Abstaining
If a councilmember chooses to abstain from a vote, it has the same effect as voting against the motion.

Reconsideration
A councilmember may move to reconsider a vote of the council at one of the following two Council
meetings, but only if that councilmember voted with the prevailing side at the time of the vote.

Mayoral Veto
The mayor may veto ordinances, tax levies and appropriations, subject to city council veto override as
provided by state law. If the mayor vetoes a council action, reasoning in writing must be explained to the
council within fifteen (15) days.

The council may reconsider a mayor’s veto at the next meeting following such veto. The council may
override the mayor’s veto by a two-thirds majority vote of all councilmembers, four (4), in favor of the
ordinance, tax levy or appropriation for it to take effect.

Attendance Requirement for City Councilmembers
The compensation paid to the members of the City Council shall be reduced, for the applicable pay period,
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each unexcused absence in excess of four (4) occurring during any
calendar year from regularly scheduled City Council meetings and scheduled Budget and Finance
Committee meetings (Murray city code 2.06.050).

Absences
Councilmembers shall forfeit any leadership position by failing to attend four (4) consecutive regular
meetings of the council (not including work sessions) without being excused by the council. Members of
the council may ask to be excused by following the procedure described in this paragraph. The member
shall contact the council chair (and if the chair seeks an excused absence, the vice-chair) prior to the
meeting and state the reason for the inability to attend the meeting. If the member is unable to contact
the chair, the member shall contact the vice-chair or the council executive director, who shall convey the
message to the chair. Following the call to order, the chair (or councilmember conducting) shall inform
the council of the member’s absence, state the reason for such absence, and inquire if there is a motion
to excuse the member. Upon passage of such motion by a majority of members present, the absent
member shall be considered excused and appropriate notations in the minutes. Any councilmember
exceeding these guidelines may appeal the matter to the council and the council may excuse any of the
absences and waive the penalty.

Minutes
Public meetings are recorded and written minutes are extrapolated from the digital audio recording of
the meeting. Both the written and audio records are available to the public upon request.



                                                                                                       20
The council executive director ensures that minutes are taken of all council, committee, and special
meetings. The city recorder shall keep written minutes of all regular and special council meetings on file.

Council minutes are a written record of the proceedings during the actual Council meeting. They reflect
the substance of what actually occurred in the Council meeting. Councilmembers are required to approve
the minutes. Corrections, deletions, or additions to factual information, quoted statements, meeting
events, and official council actions should be made prior to approval of the minutes.

Editorial corrections may be submitted to the council staff prior to a public meeting.

Special Meetings
Special meetings, including workshops and retreats, may be held as provided by State Law and City
Ordinance.

Closed Meetings
As per State Code (UCA 52-4-204 and 52-4-205) before any part of a public meeting may be closed for one
of the valid reasons detailed below, the council must be called together in an open meeting. At least a
two-thirds majority of the councilmembers present must vote to close the meeting. The council may close
portions of its meetings to do the following:

    •   Discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual.
    •   Hold a strategy session to discuss collective bargaining.
    •   Hold a strategy session to discuss pending or reasonable imminent litigation.
    •   Hold a strategy session to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property when public
        discussion of the transaction would disclose the appraisal or estimated value of the property
        under consideration or prevent the public body from completing the transaction.
    •   Hold a strategy session to discuss the sale of real property.
    •   Discuss the deployment of security devices and investigative proceedings regarding criminal
        conduct.

No ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, contract, or appointment can be approved at a closed meeting.
The closed portion of a meeting must be recorded and detailed minutes may be kept. These recordings
and minutes are protected records under the Government Records Access and Management Act
(GRAMA).

Neighborhood Meetings
Neighborhood meetings may be scheduled away from the council's usual meeting place for the purpose
of gathering or sharing information regarding current matter(s) being considered by the council. The
council executive director shall arrange for a suitable place for such meetings.

Robert’s Rules of Order
The council shall conduct its meetings according to the most current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order.
The council may, by majority vote, waive a rule.

Presiding Officer at Meetings




                                                                                                        21
The presiding officer at Council meetings shall be rotated monthly among councilmembers according to
district (District 1, District 2, etc.). If the presiding officer is not present or declines this responsibility, the
council chair shall preside.

 Order of Calling the Vote
The city recorder shall call the vote beginning with the council district number immediately higher than
the district number of the councilmember presiding at that meeting. This shall ensure that the
councilmember presiding shall always vote last.




                                                                                                                  22
                    Council Meeting Agenda Submission Process

Council Action Log
The Council Action Log is a working draft document used to track items that are coming forward to a
Committee of the Whole meeting for discussion and/or a Council meeting for Council action. The Council
Action Log is maintained by the council executive director and is generally sent out to all councilmembers
and the Mayor’s office every Wednesday.

Agenda Overview
The council executive director shall see that agendas are properly prepared, posted, and published in a
timely manner according to the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.

Council agendas shall be posted at Murray City Hall, submitted to a newspaper of general circulation in
Murray City and posted on the Utah Public Notice and Murray City websites.

Agenda Submission Process
An item or topic requiring Council action may be submitted by:

    •   A private resident through two councilmembers
    •   Two councilmembers
    •   The mayor
    •   A department director through the mayor

Private Resident – Any private resident or organization may bring a proposal forward by requesting
sponsorship by two councilmembers. If two councilmembers are willing to sponsor a proposal, then the
item moves forward by the same process as a councilmember proposal.

Councilmember Proposal – Any councilmember may bring any proposed action to a Council Initiative
Workshop (CIW) or a Committee of the Whole (COW) meeting, provided that at least one other
councilmember has signed off indicating their consent to evaluate the topic further. Councilmembers will
fill out the councilmember Initiative Request Form (See Appendix 6), signed off by the supporting
councilmember(s), and submit the form to the council executive director. The proposed action is then
scheduled in either a CIW or COW for the purpose of discussing the subject matter in detail. The
sponsoring councilmember is responsible for presenting information to educate councilmembers with
data, experiences, and current trends. Following this discussion the Council shall determine if there is
sufficient interest for future action, staff involvement, or whether the item is to be tabled until further
notice.

Mayor/Administration – The mayor’s office will submit items requested by department directors to the
council executive director to be placed on the Council Action Log. Items are typically heard in a Committee
of the Whole meeting first then onto a Council meeting for final consideration.

Council Office Agenda Process
   1. Items being submitted for Council consideration must include a complete Council Action Request
        form along with any legal documentation, explanatory memos and background information


                                                                                                        23
     relating to the item. Items submitted by councilmembers must also include a councilmember
     Initiative Request Form.
2.   The Council generally meets on the first and third Tuesdays of each month. A meeting schedule is
     adopted and published prior to the beginning of each calendar year. The meetings on Tuesdays
     will consist of a Committee of the Whole meeting which is used to discuss and study topics that
     may be forthcoming on a future Council meeting agenda. After the Committee of the Whole
     meeting a Council meeting will take place where formal Council action on items can be taken.
3.   The Council staff review and/or prepare supporting materials to be considered by the Council and
     ensure the completeness of the materials. The council chair will approve the Committee of the
     Whole and Council meeting agendas.
4.   Legal documents, explanatory memos and background information relating to the agenda items
     must, to the extent possible, be received by the Council Office by 5:00 p.m. the Wednesday two
     weeks prior to the scheduled Committee of the Whole or Council meeting. Late documentation
     may be added with the approval of the council chair. Over the next two days the agenda and
     documentation is compiled in the Council Office and an agenda to be publicized is created.
5.   The Council staff sends the agenda and all meeting documentation to the councilmembers the
     Friday that is one and a half weeks prior to the Tuesday meetings. This “preliminary”
     documentation may be perused by councilmembers with time for them to have questions
     answered, or have items postponed or pulled from the meeting agendas if deemed necessary.
6.   On the Friday, prior to the Tuesday Council meetings the agenda is formally published (noticed)
     by the Council staff to meet the Utah Open and Public Meeting Act requirements. If changes have
     been made to the meeting documentation, the Council staff will send updated meeting
     documents to the councilmembers in preparation for the meetings.
7.   The Committee of the Whole and Council meeting are held the following Tuesday.




                                                                                                  24
                      Council Meeting Agenda Order of Business

Agendas
The council executive director shall see that agendas are properly prepared, posted, and published in a
timely manner according to the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.

Council agendas shall be posted at the Murray City Center, submitted to a newspaper of general
circulation in Murray City, posted on the Utah Public Notice Website, and posted on the Murray City
website.

Procedures for submitting items for the agenda are as follows:

    •    Topics may be added to the agenda: (a) at the discretion of the mayor; or (b) as directed by at
         least two councilmembers.
    •    Anyone wishing to bring a matter before the council shall submit their request in writing, together
         with forms approved by the council, to the council staff. In order to add such matters, the request
         must be approved by the mayor or two councilmembers.
    •    All new items for the agenda must be submitted by 5:00 p.m. the Wednesday thirteen (13) days
         prior to the council meeting. The chair may waive an item from this requirement.
    •    The council executive director shall ensure that all matters are submitted in a timely manner to
         the council. Before matters are placed on the agenda, they must first be reviewed by the council
         chair.
    •    Council staff shall review supporting materials to be considered by the council and ensure the
         completeness of the materials.

Delivery to Councilmembers
The agenda, together with all documents relating to the items on it, shall be delivered to councilmembers
as preliminary documents approximately eleven (11) days prior to the meeting. The final agenda and
documents will be delivered the Friday prior to the Council meeting. The council chair may waive this
requirement.

Notice of Meeting
All council agendas and "Notice of Meeting" documents shall contain the following:

NOTICE

SPECIAL ACCOMMODATIONS FOR THE HEARING OR VISUALLY IMPAIRED WILL BE MADE UPON A
REQUEST DIRECTED TO THE OFFICE OF THE MURRAY CITY RECORDER (801-264-2660). WE WOULD
APPRECIATE NOTIFICATION TWO WORKING DAYS PRIOR TO THE MEETING. TDD NUMBER IS 801- 270-
2425 or CALL RELAY UTAH AT #711.

Order of Business
The Committee of the Whole and Council meeting agendas shall conform to the following order of
business:




                                                                                                         25
Committee of the Whole
   1. Approval of Minutes
   2. Discussion Items
   3. Internal Council Business or Announcements
   4. Adjournment

Council Meeting
   1. Opening Ceremonies
           a. Pledge of Allegiance
   2. Approval of Minutes
   3. Special Recognition/Presentation
   4. Citizen Comments
   5. Consent Agenda
   6. Public Hearings
   7. Business Items
   8. Mayor
           a. Report
           b. Questions for the Mayor
   9. Adjournment

Committee of the Whole.
The purpose of the Committee of the Whole meeting is:

   •   To consider items of internal Council business,
   •   To give further consideration to items of business referred to the Committee of the Whole from
       the New Business section of the agenda, and
   •   To review items that may require future action by the Council.

Business items referred to Committee of the Whole from the council agenda are sent for discussion
purposes. No vote will be taken on these business items in Committee of the Whole. All business items
considered in Committee of the Whole shall be scheduled for a specific time.

Council Meetings
   1. Opening Ceremonies – This portion of the Council agenda shall consist of the following
           • Call to Order
           • Pledge of Allegiance

   2. Approval of Minutes

   3. Special Recognition - Under this part of the Opening Ceremonies section of the agenda, the
      council shall consider resolutions of commendation, condolences and appreciation, and similar
      ceremonial matters.

       The order of business for consideration of resolutions under this section shall be as follows:

           •   Reading of the resolution.
           •   Motion to adopt.


                                                                                                        26
        •   Discussion.
        •   Vote on motion.
        •   Presentation of resolution and response.

4. Citizen Comments – This section allows any citizen or organization to speak before the council
   and the mayor, or to email comments if unable to attend the Council meeting in person. Items
   for which the council would like to receive additional public input will be specifically listed for that
   purpose in this section. Comments are limited to three minutes, unless otherwise approved by a
   majority vote of councilmembers. Emailed comments will be forwarded to the councilmembers
   before the meeting.

5. Consent Agenda – This section contains items of routine business, all requiring action, but not
   expected to generate discussion. Each item is briefly reviewed by the presiding officer and any
   councilmember wishing to do so may ask for any of the items on the Consent Agenda to be taken
   out and placed on the regular agenda.

6. Public Hearings – This section will be used for all public hearings. The presiding officer shall
   conduct the public hearing in the following manner, except as waived by the council:

        •   Introduction – The presiding officer informs those attending of the procedure and order
            of business for the hearing and reads the item for consideration.
        •   Staff presentation – City staff briefly summarizes the request that prompted the public
            hearing. This presentation shall not exceed five minutes, unless otherwise approved by a
            majority vote of councilmembers.
        •   Sponsor presentation – If desired, the sponsor of the request may also make a
            presentation. This presentation shall not exceed fifteen minutes, unless otherwise
            approved by a majority vote of councilmembers.
        •   Comment – The presiding officer asks for public comment on the matter before the
            council. This public comment portion allows any citizen or organization to speak to the
            item before the council. Comments are limited to three minutes, unless otherwise
            approved by a majority vote of councilmembers, and each speaker shall be allowed to
            speak only once, unless otherwise approved by a majority of councilmembers. If unable
            to attend the council meeting in person, a person may submit email comments on the
            public hearing. Emailed comments will be forwarded to the councilmembers before the
            meeting. Speakers are requested to:

                 o   Complete the appropriate form.
                 o   Wait to be recognized before speaking.
                 o   Come to the microphone and state their name and city of residence.
                 o   Be brief and to the point.
                 o   Not restate points made by other speakers.
                 o   Address questions through the presiding officer.
                 o   Confine remarks to the topic, avoiding personality differences.

            After all citizens who wish to comment have spoken, councilmembers may ask additional
            questions of participants before the presiding officer closes the hearing.



                                                                                                        27
        •   Sponsor summation/response – Following citizen comment and questions by the council,
            the sponsor or staff shall be given the opportunity to give a fifteen-minute summation
            and/or response prior to closing of the public hearing.
        •   Closing the hearing – If there is no further public comment, questions by councilmembers,
            or final response by the sponsor, the presiding officer declares the hearing closed.
        •   Consideration of the item – At the close of the public hearing, the Council shall consider
            the item for action.

7. Business Items – This section of the agenda shall be for the introduction of all business to be
   considered by the council. All business items, including unfinished and new business items, are in
   this section and can include items that have been referred out of a committee or items which had
   appeared on a previous agenda where no action had been taken on the item. The Council may,
   by majority vote, (1) send a business item to committee, (2) postpone final action to a future
   meeting, or (3) take final action on the matter.

8. Mayor – The Mayor’s Report gives the mayor the opportunity to regularly report to the council
   about city business. Questions to the Mayor gives all members of the council an opportunity to
   ask questions or raise issues of concern to the mayor and to request appropriate action.

9. Adjournment




                                                                                                   28
                                         City Council Office

Council Office Staff
The council office staff consists of a council executive director, council office administrator, and other staff
hired or contracted as the council may deem necessary. Hiring procedures are detailed below. The council
executive director is supervised by the council chair. The council executive director supervises all other
council office staff.

All council staff members are appointed by the council as follows:

    •   Job Descriptions – The council reviews and approves all job descriptions for council staff members.
    •   Posting and Interviews - All arrangements for job posting and interviews are handled by the
        council staff.
    •   Council Executive Director – Applicants are interviewed by the council chair and vice-chair.
        Finalists may be interviewed by the entire council. The entire council will select a person by a
        majority vote from the finalists.
    •   Other staff – The council executive director, with councilmember involvement, interviews
        applicants and recommends finalists to the entire council. The entire council will select a person
        by a majority vote from the finalists.

The duties of the council executive director include:

    •   Serves as a liaison to the administration.
    •   Meets all requirements of the Open and Public Meetings Act.
    •   Coordinates activities related to agenda requests.
    •   Coordinates agenda preparation and analysis.
    •   Conducts research as requested by councilmembers.
    •   Helps coordinate and provide policy analysis.
    •   Coordinates council activities associated with the city budget analysis, review, and adoption.
    •   Submits a proposed budget for the council office operations.
    •   Coordinates council activities for budget tracking throughout the year.
    •   Organizes activities related to council initiatives, administrative reviews, department auditing and
        other such duties correlated with the council carrying out its responsibilities.
    •   Manages council responsibilities for coordination of the annual independent financial audit.
    •   Coordinates and attends council meetings, committee meetings, citizen meetings and other
        similar meetings as caused by councilmembers.
    •   Coordinates training activities for new councilmembers.
    •   Attends Utah League of Cities and Towns Legislative Policy Committee meetings and reports to
        council.
    •   Follows pertinent state legislation and reports to council.
    •   Supervises the council office staff.
    •   Interface with citizens as necessary.




                                                                                                             29
The duties of the Council Office Administrator include:

    •   Attend meetings of the council and manage minute preparation and approval.
    •   Oversee council office accounts payable.
    •   Coordinate meetings and special events.
    •   Organize travel arrangements.
    •   Interface with the public.

Performance appraisals of council staff shall be conducted annually as follows:

    •   The council chair and vice-chair shall conduct the performance appraisal for the council executive
        director.
    •   The council executive director shall conduct the appraisal for all other staff members.
    •   Compensation increases, exclusive of Cost of Living Adjustments (COLAs), shall be based on the
        performance appraisal subject to appropriation of funds.

Compensation and Step Plan – Council staff compensation is determined by the council and changed as
follows:

    •   The council executive director’s compensation may be reevaluated periodically. Changes may be
        made based on performance and/or completion of a Wasatch Compensation Salary Survey and is
        subject to appropriation of funds.
    •   Council staff’s compensation is based on the annual performance appraisal and the step plan,
        subject to appropriation of funds.
    •   Each staff member shall receive an annual COLA in the same amount and at the same time as
        other City employees.

City Councilmembers
The council salary is set by city ordinance. The council has the authority to revise the council’s salary by a
public hearing process. Councilmembers are paid biweekly along with the other city employees. If the
council approves a COLA for city employees during the adoption of the annual budget, councilmembers
also receive the COLA.

Councilmembers will have a Murray City email address. A council calendar is provided with the email
system which council staff keeps current with meetings and events.

Councilmembers will be provided an iPad for use in conducting city business.

A cell phone allowance is paid to each councilmember for use in conducting city business during their
term of office.

Councilmembers are provided with a monthly expense allowance to defer the costs of conducting city
business during their term of office. This allowance can be used for citizen meetings, meals, parking, and
mileage within a 50 mile radius of the city.

Councilmembers are eligible for city health care, retirement, and investment benefits.



                                                                                                           30
The city code is available on the city website: www.murray.utah.gov. If you prefer a hard copy of the city
code, that can be provided to you and updates will be received periodically.

City Council Travel – See attached Travel Policy.

Council Office Budget
Each year the council executive director shall work with the council chair and submit a proposed budget
for the council office operations to the members of the council for their review and approval.

Review of Council Expenditures – The council chair shall have general responsibility to see that all
expenditures are made on time and within budget.

Expenses Relating to Neighborhood Meetings – Costs associated with neighborhood meetings shall be
funded from the council office budget.

Public Relations Account
A public relations account has been established and is funded solely by payroll deduction from
councilmember pay checks. The deduction amount shall be decided or amended by a vote of the council.
Council staff may assist in transactions and report the status of the account to councilmembers
periodically.

The purpose of the public relations account is to provide a mechanism for the council as a whole to
purchase and deliver token remembrances or acknowledgments. The events listed below shall be
considered first priority use for account funds; all secondary uses not listed, and the donation amounts
shall be informally approved by a majority of councilmembers. Council staff will assist in all transactions.

    •   Death or serious illness of an employee or an employee’s immediate family
    •   Retirement of a City Employee (25 years?)

The public relations account is to be funded solely from the pay of councilmembers by payroll deduction.
The amount deducted shall be decided by a vote of the council.

The council chair shall have general responsibility to see that all expenditures are made properly.
Disbursement from the account shall require authorized signature. The council executive director is
authorized to sign on the account.




                                                                                                         31
                                                 Ethics

Municipal Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act
The Ethics’ Act is found in Utah Code 10-3-1301 and Murray City Municipal Code Chapter 2.46 and 2.47
and applies to all elected and appointed officers and employees of a city. At the beginning of each calendar
year, councilmembers shall read and agree to Murray City’s Code of Ethics ordinance.

The law makes it a crime to:
    • Improperly use private, controlled, or protected information.
    • Use a person’s official position to further personal economic interest or privileges.
    • Receive a gift of substantial value, although, an occasional gift having a value of $50 or less is
       allowed.
    • Receive compensation for assisting any person or entity in any transaction with the City.
    • Use City property and resources for non-City or personal use. This includes, but is not limited to,
       computers and other office equipment; tools and building materials; City services; City rooms and
       buildings; and any other facility, property, or resource having a value. Under no circumstances
       may City personnel conduct any form or part of a private business in City facilities or using City
       resources. Incidental and de minimus personal use of telephones, computers and other office
       equipment, where such use does not interfere with City business, is permitted.

Disclosure of Conflict of Interest:
    • Written – A written disclosure statement is required to be filed upon first getting elected,
        whenever there is a change in the nature of conflict, and at the beginning of each year of service.
    • Oral – An oral disclosure must be made in an open meeting to the members of the body of which
        one is a member immediately before the discussion about the topic involved in the conflict of
        interest.

Ethics Commission Murray City Municipal Code Chapter 2.47:
    • The purpose of the commission is to review, hold hearings, deliberate, and make official findings
        and recommendations regarding complaints against City officers and employees for alleged
        violations of ethics standards.
    • The ethics commission consists of five (5) members who must have been City residents for at
    • least three (3) years. Members of the commission are appointed by the Mayor with Advice and
        Consent of the City Council.




                                                                                                         32
                                           Risk Assessment

Councilmember shall take the State of Utah Auditor’s online Training for Municipal Officials in January
following election or reelection to the council. A link to the training will be sent by the (council or finance)
director and training should be completed within fourteen days of receiving the link. Councilmembers
should send their certificate of completion to the council executive director when they have completed
the training.




                                                                                                             33
                               Discrimination and Harassment
Anti-Harassment Policy
It is City policy to foster and maintain a work environment that is free from discrimination and
intimidation. The City will not tolerate harassment of any kind that is made by councilmembers toward
fellow councilmembers, city staff, or members of the public. Councilmembers are expected to show
respect for one another and the public at all times, despite individual differences.

Harassment is unwelcome conduct that is based on race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy,
childbirth, and related medical conditions), national origin, age (40 or older), disability, genetic
information, marital status, sexual orientation, honorably discharged veteran or military status or the
presence of any sensory, mental or physical disability or the use of a trained dog guide or service animal
by a person with a disability. In some circumstances, it can be deemed unlawful discrimination that
violates federal laws and/or state laws. The making of demeaning comments, whether verbally or in
writing, or use of unwelcome epithets, gestures, or other physical conduct, based on the above-
referenced protected classes, toward employees, councilmembers or members of the public are
prohibited. Councilmembers are strongly urged to report all incidents of harassment.

Sexual harassment is a form of unlawful discrimination.

Reporting Discrimination or Harassment
If the incident involves a city employee, or an appointee to an advisory board or a commission, the
incident should be reported as soon as possible to the Mayor.

If the incident involves a councilmember, the incident should be reported as soon as possible to the city
attorney.

All complaints will be investigated promptly. Upon receiving a complaint, an investigation shall be initiated
within 24 hours, or as reasonably practicable, usually, by the end of the next business day.

All complaints will be kept confidential to the fullest extent possible and will be disclosed only as necessary
to allow an investigation and response to the complaint. No one will be involved in the investigation or
response except those with a need to know. Any special concerns about confidentiality will be addressed
at the time they are raised.

Anyone who is found to have violated this policy is subject to corrective action. Corrective action will
depend on the gravity of the offense. The Council will take whatever action it deems necessary to prevent
an offense from being repeated.

The Council will not permit retaliation against anyone who makes a complaint or who cooperates in an
investigation.

Both the person filing the complaint and the alleged offender shall receive a written response that
contains the findings of the investigation and any action taken. Unless extra time is needed for a thorough
investigation, the response will normally be given within thirty (30) days of when the complaint was
received. All parties will be notified of an extended investigation if such an extension is necessary to
complete the findings.

                                                                                                            34
                                           Appendices

Council staff are responsible, and authorized, to update the Appendices as necessary. Except for the
actual text of the Council Handbook included herein, council staff may update, amend, format, and
organize the Appendices without first seeking council approval.

Appendix 1 – Murray City Organizational Chart
Appendix 2 – Elected and Appointed Officials and Executive Team
Appendix 3 – Committee of the Whole Meeting Procedures
Appendix 4 – Council Meeting Procedures
Appendix 5 – City Council Travel Policy
Appendix 6 – City Hall Policies
Appendix 7 – Murray City Social Media Policy
Appendix 8 – Councilmember Initiative Request Form
Appendix 9 – Annual Disclosure Statement
Appendix 10 – Roberts Rules of Order – The Basics
Appendix 11 – Glossary of Acronyms




                                                                                                       35
          Appendix 1

Murray City Organizational Chart
Murray City                                                                                  Fiscal Year 2023/2024

ORGANIZATIONAL CHART

                                               Murray Residents



 Legislative                                    Executive                      Judicial              Library
   Branch                                        Branch                        Branch                Board



    Councilmember
                                                 Mayor                             City Judge         Library Director
       District 1
                                               Brett Hales                     W. Paul Thompson          Kim Fong
    David Rodgers


    Councilmember                                            Chief
                            Chief Administrative
                                                         Communications        Senior Court Clerk
       District 2                  Officer
                                                            Officer             Karen Gallegos
     Pam Cotter                  Doug Hill
                                                         Tammy Kikuchi


  Councilmember
      District 3                          City Departments
 Rosalba Dominguez


    Councilmember                                      Community & Economic
                            City Attorney
       District 4                                       Development Director
                           G.L. Critchfield
     Diane Turner                                         Philip Markham



   Councilmember       Finance & Administration
                                                              Police Chief
      District 5               Director
                                                              Craig Burnett
   Garry Hrechkosy          Brenda Moore



      Council
                       Power General Manager                    Fire Chief
  Executive Director
                        Greg Bellon (interim)                 Joey Mittelman
  Jennifer Kennedy



     City Attorney                                           Human Resources
                        Public Works Director
                                                                 Director
    G.L. Critchfield        Russ Kakala
                                                               Robyn Colton


                          Parks & Recreation                    IT Director
    Budget Officer             Director
                                                               Robert White
    Brenda Moore            Kim Sorensen
                         Appendix 2

Murray City Elected and Appointed Officials and Executive Team
         Murray City Elected and Appointed Officials, Executive Team

Elected Officials
Mayor…………………………………………………………………………………………. Brett Hales
Council member – District 1………………………………………………………..….. David Rodgers
Council member – District 2………………………………………………………………... Pam Cotter
Council member – District 3……………………………………………..………. Rosalba Dominguez
Council member – District 4…………………………………………………………….... Diane Turner
Council member – District 5…………………………………………………………. Garry Hrechkosy


Appointed by Mayor and Council
Budget Officer…………………..…………………………Brett Hales – Delegated to Brenda Moore
City Attorney…………………………………………………………………..…………. G.L. Critchfield
City Recorder…………………………………………………………………………..….. Brooke Smith
City Treasurer…………………………………………………………….……………….... Mindy Stacy
Council Executive Director……………………………………………..…………… Jennifer Kennedy
Municipal Court Judge………………………………………………..…………… W. Paul Thompson


Executive Team
Mayor……………………………………………………………………...………………….. Brett Hales
Chief Administrative Officer……………………………………………….………………….. Doug Hill
Chief Communications Officer…………………………………………………...……. Tammy Kikuchi
City Attorney…………………………………………………………………..…………. G.L. Critchfield
Community and Economic Development Director…………………………….…… Philip Markham
Finance and Administration Director…………………………………………………… Brenda Moore
Fire Chief……………………………………………………………………………..….. Joey Mittelman
Human Resources Director………………………………………………….……………Robyn Colton
Information Technology Director………………………………………………………… Robert White
Library Director……………………………………………………………………………..….. Kim Fong
Parks and Recreation Director…………………………………………….……………. Kim Sorensen
Police Chief………………………………………………………………………..………. Craig Burnett
Power General Manager…………………………………………………………………… Greg Bellon
Public Works Director………………………………………………………………..……. Russ Kakala
                 Appendix 3

Committee of the Whole Presiding Officer Tips
                              Presiding Officer Tips
                           Committee of the Whole (COW)

Introduction:          The council chair, or vice-chair in the chair’s absence, will call the COW meeting
                       to order promptly at the time indicated on the COW agenda. The chair will
                       introduce the councilmembers who are present and make a note of anyone that
                       is absent.

Approval of Minutes:   Only minutes from COW, council retreats, workshops, or special meetings are
                       approved in the COW. More than one set of minutes may be listed for approval;
                       they may be taken together or separate. That should be stated by the council
                       chair, or vice-chair in the chair’s absence.

                       The council chair, or vice-chair in the chair’s absence, will ask for corrections,
                       questions, comments, or action on the minutes to be approved.

                       If a councilmember has corrections, they must state the page number and
                       correction that needs to be made (corrections may be given to the council
                       executive director prior to the meeting, however, corrections given to the
                       council executive director prior to the meeting must be stated for the record
                       during the approval of the minutes).

                       If no other comments or corrections are made, one councilmember should
                       move to approve the minutes, as written, or as corrected.

                       Another councilmember seconds the motion.

                       The chair will say, “All in favor, say aye.”

                       Councilmembers will say “aye.”

                       The chair will ask if anyone is opposed or abstaining. If a councilmember is
                       opposed, they will say “nay.” If a councilmember is abstaining, they will say, “I
                       abstain.”

                       Following approval, corrections will be made in the Council Office and the
                       minutes will be posted according to Utah Open and Public Meetings Act
                       regulations.

Discussion Items:      The council chair, or vice-chair in the chair’s absence, will read the first discussion
                       item and introduce the person presenting the item. Each discussion item will be
                       presented in subsequent order where councilmembers will hear and learn about
                       each item until all discussions items have been reviewed.

Adjournment:           If there is no further discussion on any related matter, the council chair, or vice-
                       chair in the chair’s absence, will adjourn the COW.
             Appendix 4

Council Meeting Presiding Officer Tips
                                 Presiding Officer Tips
                        Council Meeting – Opening Ceremonies

Call to Order:        The presiding officer should call the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.

                      Welcome all attendees.

                      Ask that cell phones be turned off or turned to silent.

Pledge of Allegiance: Before the meeting, ask someone to lead the Pledge of Allegiance. Announce
                      their name and ask them to step to the podium and lead the audience in the
                      Pledge of Allegiance.
                              Presiding Officer Tips
                    Council Meeting – Council Meeting Minutes

Minutes:    Only minutes from Council meetings will be approved in Council meetings.

Process:    More than one set of minutes may be listed for approval; they may be taken together or
            separate. That should be stated by the presiding officer.

            The presiding officer will ask for corrections, questions, comments, or action on the
            minutes to be approved.

            If a Council member has corrections, they must state the page number and correction
            that needs to be made (Corrections may be given to the Council Executive Director prior
            to the meeting, however, corrections given to the Council Executive Director prior to the
            meeting must be stated for the record during the approval of the minutes).

            If no other comments or corrections are made, one Council member should move to
            approve the minutes, as written, or as corrected.

            Another Council member seconds the motion.

            The presiding officer will say, “All in favor, say aye.”

            Council Members will say “aye.”

            The presiding officer will ask if anyone is opposed or abstaining. If a Council Member is
            opposed, they will say “nay.” If a Council member is abstaining, they will say, “I abstain.”

Approval:   Following approval, corrections will be made in the Council Office and the minutes
            will be posted according to Utah Open and Public Meetings Act regulations.
                                Presiding Officer Tips
             Council Meeting – Special Recognition and Joint Resolutions

Presiding Officer:   Read the Resolution Title from the Agenda
                     Joint Resolution - Ask the Mayor to read the resolution in its entirety.

Mayor:               Read the entire resolution
                     When you get to the adoption date, stop, and ask the presiding officer if they
                     would like to act on the resolution.

Presiding Officer:   Entertain a motion to adopt.
                     A motion to adopt should be made and seconded.

                     Ask for discussion.
                     This is an opportunity for all Council Members to make nice speeches!

                     Call for the vote.
                     Roll call vote will be conducted by the City Recorder.

Mayor:               Presentation of the Resolution by the Mayor
                     The Mayor makes his comments at this time.

                     Recipient response
                     This is a courtesy to the recipient.
                                     Presiding Officer Tips
                             Council Meeting – Citizen Comments

This is the time when the Council provides the opportunity for members of the public to address the
Council about any topic they would like to.



Please Explain:

                   •    The speaker has up to 3 minutes to make their comment unless given prior
                        approval for additional time, or 5 minutes if speaking for a group.
                   •    The speaker can make any sort of comment they wish to. This includes comments
                        addressing all business on the agenda, except for public hearings.
                   •    This is not the time for speakers who would like to address a public hearing. Public
                        comments for public hearings will be given during the public hearing presentation.

Procedure

                    •    Step to the microphone.
                    •    State your name and city of residence.
                    •    Fill out the form provided.


Council members should only thank the person for their comments or provide a brief explanation,
however, they should not get involved in a discussion related to an issue. The presiding officer may direct
the person to a department head for further information or indicate that someone from the city will
contact them at a later date.
                                   Presiding Officer Tips
                             Council Meeting – Consent Agenda

The Consent Agenda is used when there is a list of routine business items, all requiring action, but not
expected to generate discussion. Many of these items are advisory board appointments. New appointees
have been asked to attend the Council meeting.

Presiding Officer:     Announce that there are several items on the Consent Agenda for approval.

                       Read each item on the Consent Agenda.

                       Ask the Mayor if he/she would like to introduce any appointees or make any
                       comments. These persons should be recognized, asked to stand, and
                       complimented for their willingness to serve the City in such capacity.

                       Ask if there are any objections to taking all items together. (See below)

If no objections:      Entertain a motion to approve the Consent Agenda.

                       A motion to adopt should be made and seconded. No discussion.

                       Roll call vote will be conducted by the City Recorder.

If objections:         Member states, they would like item # ______ placed on the regular agenda.

                       The presiding officer notes that item # _____ will be considered at the end of the
                       Business Items agenda. The presiding officer asks if there are other items to be
                       placed on the regular agenda. (Regular agenda items have a time for discussion.)

                       If no more are requested:

Presiding Officer:     State that hearing no other requests, the presiding officer would entertain a
                       motion to approve the Consent Agenda.

Member:                I move approval of items # ___, # ___ and #___ on the Consent Agenda.

Member:                I second the motion.

Presiding Officer:     It has been moved and seconded that items #___, # ___ and # ___ on the Consent
                       Agenda be approved. Ask City Recorder to call the vote.

Note:                  There is no discussion, as the items reserved for discussion have been moved to
                       the Business Item agenda.

Recorder:              Roll call vote by the City Recorder.

Presiding Officer:     The motion passes and items # ___, # ___ and # ___ are approved.
                                  Presiding Officer Tips
                             Council Meeting – Public Hearings


 1.   Introduction Presiding Officer

      It is now time for Public Hearing #1 – Read the caption on the agenda.

      The Public Hearing will proceed as follows:

          •    Staff Presentation (Five minutes)
          •    Sponsor Presentation (Fifteen minutes)
          •    Public Comment (Three minutes each)
          •    Questions and actions by Council Members

 2.   Staff Presentation (Five minutes)

 3.   Sponsor Presentation (Fifteen minutes)

      Presiding officer asks if there is a sponsor who wishes to speak. If so, they should be instructed
      to state their name and address for the record.

 4.   Public Comment (Three minutes each)

          •   Fill out the form provided.
          •   State their name and city of residence.
          •   The speaker is asked to limit their comments to three minutes, unless given prior
              approval for additional time, or five minutes if speaking for a group.

      Guidelines for public comment:
         • Be brief and to the point.
         • Try not to restate points made by others.
         • Comments should be directed to the Council, confined to the topic of discussion.

      Presiding officer should maintain decorum and respect, asking the audience to refrain from
              clapping, rude comments or other actions in favor or against the speaker.

 5.   Closing the Hearing
      Once it is clear all public comments have been made, presiding officer announces that the PH is
      closed.

6.    Council Questions
      Council Members may ask questions of any of the participants.
7.   Response by Staff or Sponsor

8.   Council Consideration of the Item
     The presiding officer entertains a motion on the ….. (Read the caption again)

          • Motion and second should be made.

          • The presiding officer states that Council member ______ has moved and Council
            member _______ has seconded to …………..(restate the motion).

          • The presiding officer asks for discussion on the motion. (This discussion is limited only to
            members of the Council.)

          • Following all discussion, the presiding officer asks the City Recorder to call the vote.

          • Presiding officer announces the result of the vote.
                                    Presiding Officer Tips
                               Council Meeting – Business Items

The presiding officer will:

    1. Read the wording on the agenda.

    2. Ask for the staff presentation to explain and provide background on the item.

    3. Ask Council members if they have any questions. (There are no public comment for business
       items).

    4. Entertain a motion and a second from the Council on the agenda item.

        Motion from Council member – “I move to (approve or deny) the……….. “ (restate the item as
        worded on the agenda).

        Another Council member – “I second.”

    5. The presiding officer states that Council member ______ has moved and Council member
       _______ has seconded to …………..(restate the motion).

    6. The presiding officer will ask for discussion from the Council members.

    7. Following the discussion, the presiding officer asks the City Recorder to call the vote.

    8. The presiding officer announces the result of the vote.
       Appendix 5

City Council Travel Policy
                               Murray City Council Travel Policy


The Murray City Municipal Council adopts, subject to the provisions below, the Murray City travel policy
put into effect by Executive Order 19-01 of July 7, 2019, a copy of which is attached.

Council Specific Provisions and Amendments

    1. Future Amendments. In the event of any future amendment by the City administration to
       Executive Order 19-01, the Council shall automatically adopt such amendments unless within 60
       days of the amendment, the Council reviews and affirmatively declines to adopt such
       amendment or to adopt the amendment with modifications.

    2. Council travel plans shall be determined and approved during the annual budget process.

        a. During the budget process each year, council members will be allocated up to $7,500 per
           council member to use towards travel and may attend any pre-approved conference(s) they
           would like until their allocated money is gone.

        b. The Council Director will keep track of each council members travel budget and update
           council members regularly.

        c. A council member must have enough allocated funds to completely cover all conference
           expenses (hotel, air, per diem, car rental, ground transportation, etc.) in order to attend a
           conference.

        d. A council member will repay the city any amount that is spent over their allocated funds.

        e. Travel that was not anticipated during the budget process should be presented to the
           Council for approval on a case-by-case basis to determine intent and benefit in order for
           expenditures to be covered by the City Council budget.

        f.   A reimbursement request that is not consistent with the Council’s travel policy may need to
             be approved by a majority of the Council in a Council meeting before a reimbursement is
             paid out.

        g. Council members may be invited to participate in travel related to City matters sponsored
           by another City Department. Travel invitations from another Department are subject to the
           City Council’s travel budget and may be rotated between council members.

    3. The following conferences have traditionally been pre-approved for attendance by council
       members:

             •   Utah League of Cities and Towns Annual Conferences
             •   Utah League of Cities and Towns Mid-Year Conference
             •   National League of Cities Congressional City Conference
             •   National League of Cities City Summit.

                                                                                   Updated June 27, 2023
           •   American Public Power Association: Legislative Rally
           •   American Public Power Association National Conference
           •   UAMPS conference in August.
           •   Utah Land Use Institute Annual Land Use Conference
           •   ULCT Elected Officials Essentials
           •   ULCT Local Officials Day
           •   American Planning Association
           •   ICSC Las Vegas (RDA Chair and Vice Chair by the invitation of the Mayor only)

   4. Only one council member may be approved for City related business travel during the time of a
      scheduled City Council meeting.

   5. Upon return, council members will work with the Council Director to schedule time in a
      Committee of the Whole meeting to provide a follow-up report to the full Council.

   6. Council members whose terms are terminating and have determined not to run for another
      term of office, shall not use Murray City funding to travel during the last six months of office,
      and those who have been defeated during elections and are leaving office in January shall not
      use Murray City funding to attend conferences unless serving as the official City representative
      on a board, committee, or other official body.

   7. Council members are encouraged to attend training and educational seminars prior to taking
      office.

   8. Council staff will coordinate with council members to make travel arrangements. If a council
      member would like to stay extra nights before or after a conference, they will be responsible to
      make their own hotel reservations. Extra hotel nights may not be reserved or paid for with a
      City issued credit card.

   9. Family expenses, including tours, movies, mini-bar and other social events, will be the
      responsibility of each council member according to their usage. Council members are
      responsible for turning in their receipts for reimbursement on all other covered expenses within
      ten (10) days of returning. These expenses include the following for each council member:
          a. Airline tickets and baggage expense
          b. Lodging expense
          c. Ground transportation (taxi, public transportation, or rental car) to and from the Salt
              Lake City airport, from the destination airport to the lodging and back to the airport, and
              from the lodging to a council or conference sponsored event and back to the lodging.
          d. Parking expense at the airport or other long-term facilities


Revised and Approved: June 27. 2023




                                                                                 Updated June 27, 2023
                            EXECUTIVE ORDER            /[(}11-d/
                                      City-Wide Travel Policy


CONFLICT AND REPEAL

       This Executive Order supersedes, rescinds and replaces Executive Order #15-03 , dated
July 16, 2015; #12-01 dated April 2, 2012; and #2, dated January 14, 1982, each of which shall
be of no further force nor effect. Any and all other Executive Orders relating to City travel are
hereby rescinded and superseded by this Order.


PURPOSE

        The purpose of this order is to adopt a City-wide travel policy in order to ensure
consistent application of cost reimbursement and other matters related to employee travel for
City business.


IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY

          The attached City-Wide Travel Policy is hereby approved and adopted.


EFFECTIVE DATE

          This Travel Policy shall be effective June 7, 2019


Dated this 61h day of June, 2019.




Attest:




Approved as to form:




  .L. Critchfield, City Attorney
                                   Murray City Travel Policy
All overnight travel, whether in-state or out-of-state, is governed· by this policy. When traveling for work-
related meetings, conferences, and training programs, the city will pay reasonable amounts for expenses.
Every effort should be made to make cost effective choices for lodging, transportation, and other related
expenses. All travel is subject to review and audit. When requesting funds for travel, the employee agrees to
only use the money as intended according to this policy.


1.0     Definitions
        1.1     "Travel" means any work-related, overnight trip for the city.
        1.2     "Emp loyee" means all city personnel, city council and staff, boards and commission members,
                or others who travel using executive branch funds as approved by the department head and
                Mayor.
        1.3     "Per Diem" means the amount provided to an employee who is traveling to cover the costs of
                meals and incidental expenses without the necessity of supporting receipts. "Incidental
                expenses" include fees and tips for porters, baggage handlers, room service t ips, and other
                similar services. "I ncidental expenses" does not include ground transportation, fuel (if
                traveling in a city vehicle}, airport parking, baggage fees, or rental cars.
        1.4     "Ground Transportation" means the cost of transporting the employee to and from the Salt
                Lake City airport (if approved by the department head}, from the destination airport to the
                lodging and back to the airport, and from one place of business to another place of business.
2.0     General Provisions
        2.1     A Travel Authorization Form must be completed and approved prior to traveling. Travel
                Authorization Forms will be approved by the department head as to the availability of funds
                prior to being submitted to the Mayor. It is the responsibility of each department head to
                ensure that all forms and documentation submitted by their employees are in proper order.
        2.2     When possible, employees should pay for travel-related expenses using a city credit card. If
                not possible, a receipt of payment must be submitted for reimbursement.
        2.3     Employees may travel with guests. However, the city will only reimburse employee expenses.
                Guest expenses should not be charged on city credit cards.
        2.4     Non-exempt employees will be compensated for travel time as required by the Fair Labor
                Standards Act (FLSA}.

        2.5     Upon completion of approved travel, a Travel Reconciliation Form, along with receipts, must
                be subm itted to the department head within ten business days for final review and
                authorization of any payment due.
        2.6     Violations of this policy or making false statements on any travel forms will constitute grounds
                for disciplinary action.
3.0     Event Registration

        3.1     Registration fees for conferences and seminars will be paid by the city.
        3.2     Fees for optional social events or non-business-related activities will not be paid by the city.
                                     Murray City Travel Policy
4.0   Transportation
      4.1       Considering travel time, the least costly mode of transportation to the destination should be
                used for travel. This includes airlines, city vehicle, rental car, or mileage for personal vehicle . If
                an employee chooses another mode of transportation other than the least costly mode, the
                city will pay for the least costly method.
      4.2       When possible, employees are encouraged to use city-owned vehicles for travel.
      4.3       Employees requesting to use a personal vehicle will calculate mileage advances as stated by
                the IRS POV mileage allowance rate. (www.gsa.gov)
                4.3.1    Use of a personal vehicle requires verification of liability, personal injury and property
                         damage insurance coverage when submitting the Travel Authorization Form . If an
                         accident occurs while using a personal vehicle, all costs re lated to the accident, except
                         those covered by workers compensation, will be paid solely through the personal
                         insurance.
                4.3 .2   If more than one employee rides in the same vehicle, on ly the owner of the vehicle will
                         be reimbursed for mileage.
      4.4       A rental car may be used when work-related travel is required or is less expensive (including
                the cost of parking) than other transportation modes. The city will not pay for rental cars that
                are used for non-work-related travel.
                4.4.1    When renting a car for work-related use, a liability insurance supplement and loss
                         damage waiver must be purchased.
       4.5      The city will pay the lowest price, with fewest stops (including baggage fees), domestic coach
                class airfare when making airline reservations. Airline ticket purchases should be booked as far
                in advance as possible to get the best price. Reservations inside of 21-days require
                department head approval. Frequent flyer memberships should not influence airline ticket
                purchases.
       4.6      The city will pay for ground transportation, including ground transportation tips up to 20%, and
                airport parking.
5.0   Lodging
       5.1      The city will pay conference rates for single occupancy lodging plus tax. Upgrades, room
                service, and entertainment fees will not be paid by the city.
6.0   Per Diem
       6.1      The city will advance funds for Per Diem as stated by the IRS destination city per diem rate
                schedule. (www.gsa.gov)
       6.2      The first and last day of travel will be paid at 75% per diem.
       6.3      In lieu of per diem, an employee may pay for meals and incidental expenses and request
                reimbursement up to the per diem limit. A receipt documenting the expense is required.
  Appendix 6

City Hall Policies
         Appendix 7

Murray City Social Media Policy
                              EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-11

            MURRAY CITY SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY
Murray City recognizes that social media has changed the way that people communicate with
each other and that the use of social media can enhance communication between City
government and citizen s, particularly citizens that do not access traditional media. The City
encourages the use of social media to further the mission of the City and its departments where
appropriate.

POLICY
Murray City departments may utilize social media and social network sites to enhance
communications with citizens and program participants subject to the following rules and
guidelines:

   1. All Murray City social media sites shall be approved by the Mayor or designee. The
      Director of each department or the Director's designee shall be responsible for the
      content, upkeep and closure of each social media site maintained by that department.
   2. Murray City social media sites shall generally be used for (1) marketing/promotional
      channels which increase the City's ability to broadcast its messages to the widest
      possible audience, (2) public information updates, and (3) the dissemination of time-
      sensitive information as quickly as possible (example: emergency information).
   3. Content posted to Murray City social media sites shall also be made available on th e
      City's main website. Content posted to City social media sit es should contain links
      directing users back to the City's official website for in-depth information, forms,
      documents or online services necessary to conduct busi ness with the City.
   4. Use of City and department logos must conform to design guidelines.
   5. Authorized employees representing the City via social media outlets must conduct
      themselves always as a representative of the City and in accordance with all appropriate
      Murray City policies and standards, including but not limited to the Employee
      Handbook. Employees found in violation of this policy may be subject to disciplinary
      action, up to and including termination of employment.
   6. Employees should get written permission before posting images of individuals.
      Additionally, employees should get written permission to use a third party's copyrights,
      copyrighted material, trad emarks, service marks or other intellectual property.
   7. City socia l media sites shall be used only for communication of City related information
      in accordance with the City's mi ssion and shall not be used for personal purposes.
   8. City social media sites shall comply with fed eral, state and local laws, regulations an d
      administrative rules.


                                                                                                   1
9. City social media sites are subject to State of Utah public records laws (GRAMA). The
   department maintaining the site is responsible to maintain and provide, upon request,
   any public records on social media sites. Content related to City business shall be
   maintained in an accessible format and so that it can be produced in response to a
   request. Wherever possible, such sites shall clearly indicate that any articles and any
   other content posted or submitted for posting are subject to public disclosure. Utah
   state law and relevant Murray City records retention schedules apply to social media
   formats and social media content. The department maintaining a site shall preserve
   records required to be maintained pursuant to a relevant records retention schedule for
   the required retention period. Appropriate retention formats for specific socia l media
   tools sha ll be determined by the City Recorder's Office.
10. Users and visitors to social media sites shall be notified that the intended purpose of the
    site is to serve as a mechanism for communication between City departments and
    members of the public. Murray City social media site articles and comments containing
    any of the following forms of content shall not be allowed: a. Comments in support of or
    opposition to political campaigns or ballot measures; b. Profane language or content; c.
    Content that promotes, fosters, or perpetuates discrimination on the basis of race,
    creed, color, age, religion, gender, marital status, status with regard to public assistance,
    national origin, physical or mental disability or sexual orientation; d. Sexual content or
    links to sexua l content; e. Solicitations of commerce; f. Conduct or encouragement of
    illegal activity; g. Information that may tend to compromise the safety or security of the
    public or public systems; h. Content that violates a legal ownership interest of any other
    party; or i. Comments not topically related to the particular social medium article being
    commented upon, including random or unintelligible comments; j. Hyperlinks to other
    sites unrelated to the topic.
11. Where possible, a disclaimer should be posted on social media sites that states, "Murray
    City is not responsible for messages posted by visitors to the site. The City does not
    monitor this socia l media site outside of normal business hours. If there is an
    emergency or if you need immediate help please ca ll 801-840-4000."
12. City employees monitoring the socia l media site sho uld report emergency or safety
    notifications on social media sites to the department director as soon as possible.
13. The guidelines described above shou ld be displayed to users or made available by
    hyperlink. A copy of any content removed based on these guidelines must be retained,
    including the time, date and identity of the poster when available.
14. The City reserves the right to restrid or remove any content that is deemed to be in
    violation of this socia l media policy or any applicable law.
15. The social media tools that are currently approved for use by Murray City are Twitter,
    Facebook, ln stagram, YouTube, and Pinterest. If any City department desires to use any
    other social media tool, such use must be approved by the Mayor or designee.
16. All content created or posted on a City socia l media site as well as all City profile and
    home pages sha ll belong to the City. All login and password information shall be

                                                                                                    2
      retained by the Mayor, the Director of each department or designee, and the City's IT
      division director. Third party information, such as names, addresses, phone numbers,
      etc. are confidential and should not be distributed to non-City individuals or businesses.


       DATED this 2151 day of May, 2020.




                                                   ~-
ATTEST:                                            APPROVED AS TO FORM:




                                                     . L. Critchfield, City Attorney

History:

Adoption date: May 2 1, 2020




                                                                                                   3
             Appendix 8

Councilmember Initiative Request Form
                                COUNCIL MEMBER INITIATIVE REQUEST FORM
                                    Google Link: Council Member Initiative Request Form

Sponsoring Council Member Information

 Name:

 Initiative Topic:

 Date Submitted:                                        Select Meeting Type: Select

 Presentation Date Requested:

Council Member Signatures
Please request signatures from at least one additional council member for the initiative item to be included on the agenda for
discussion.

*Council member signature reflects support to present an initiative and is not an endorsement.

Sponsoring Council Member Signature:

*Council Member:

*Council Member:

Initiative Description
Please provide a detailed description of the proposed initiative below.




Supporting Documentation
In the section below, please provide any supporting documentation for the proposed initiative, such as, digital files,
hyperlinks and attachments which will be used during the initiative presentation.




Presentation Details
The Sponsoring Council member is responsible for coordinating the presentation time, room, and staff involvement. The
presentation is designed to inform and educate Council Members regarding a particular topic, i.e., the need for
discussion, statistical data, outside municipal experiences, current trends, etc.

Estimated Presentation Time Needed:

Presentation Equipment Setup Needed (AV):

Office Staff Assistance Needed:
The Sponsoring Council member is responsible for coordinating the presentation time, room, and staff involvement. The
presentation is designed to inform and educate Council Members regarding a particular topic, i.e., the need for
discussion, statistical data, outside municipal experiences, current trends, etc.




Discussion Highlights and Action Items
Discussion should be focused on balancing and weighing the topic against the general policy created by the Council. If
there is a need, discussion items may be scheduled for a second meeting. At the conclusion of the Council discussion,
please record the meeting's action items and discussion highlights.




For Council Office Staff Use

Meeting Date         mm/dd/yyyy

Supporting
Documents                Select
Received?
Notes:



Staff Signature:
        Appendix 9

Annual Disclosure Statement
                              ANNUAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

                                    Murray City Recorder’s Office
                                         10 East 4800 South
                                        Murray, Utah 84107



     I, _________________________________________, being first sworn, hereby disclose as follows:

1.   I reside at: ___________________________________________________________________
     ____________________________________________________________________________.

2.   I was elected/appointed as a member of the: _________________________________________
     _____________________________________________________________________________

     Or: Not Applicable_______________

3.   I am an officer, director, agent, employee, or owner of a substantial interest in the following business entity
     or entities:

     1. Name of business entity: _____________________________________________________

     2. Position Held: ______________________________________________________________

     3. Nature and value of interest: ___________________________________________________
        _________________________________________________________________________

     Or: Not Applicable______________

      *Note: This disclosure requirement does not apply to instances where the total value of the interest does
      not exceed $2,000. Life insurance policies and annuities shall not be considered in determining the value
      of any such interest. This statement is to be filed on first becoming a public officer, annually updated, and
      again if the position or value of interest in the business entity significantly changes.

4.    I have solicited, received or have agreed to receive, for myself or another, compensation, loans or gifts,
     directly or indirectly, from the following persons or business entities:

     A.     Name of person or entity providing compensation, loans, etc.:
            ________________________________________________________________________
            ________________________________________________________________________


     B.     Brief description of gift, loan or other compensation transaction:
            ________________________________________________________________________
            ________________________________________________________________________

     Or:    Not Applicable________________

     *NOTE: This disclosure requirement does not apply to an occasional non-pecuniary gift of a value less
      than $50.00, a public award of recognition for public service, bona fide loans from commercial lenders,
      or political contributions.
5.   I have participated in or received or have agreed to receive compensation

            1.       In respect to a transaction between state agencies and a business entity as to which I am an
                     officer, director, or employee; or own a substantial interest, or

            2.       For assisting persons or business entities in transactions involving state agencies, as
                     follows:

                     A.     Name of Agency: _____________________________________________

                     B.     Name of person or business entity involved: ________________________
                            ___________________________________________________________

                     C.     Brief description of the transaction and nature of service performed or to be
                            performed: ___________________________________________________
                            ____________________________________________________________
                            ____________________________________________________________

            or:      Not Applicable________

     *NOTE: This disclosure statement is required to be filed for each transaction or continuing transactions
     with an agency. It should be filed with the Murray City Recorder’s Office within ten days after the date if
     any agreement or receipt of compensation, whichever comes first.



     Please list any additional interests that you may have, that may be perceived as a conflict of interest with
     your City duties and responsibilities: ________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________________________________



     Dated this_________ of ____________, 20______

     _________________________________________
                  Signature

     _________________________________________                   ________________________________
                  Printed Name                                                Title


     State of Utah                          SUBSCRIBED and SWORN to before me, this _____ day of
                                    §       _____________, 20__
     County of ______________
                                            ______________________________________________
                                            Notary Public

                                            Residing at: _____________________________________
           Appendix 10

Roberts Rules of Order – The Basics
                                     Robert’s Rules of Order
                                           The Basics

        Parliamentary procedure is a set of rules for conducting orderly meetings that accomplish
goals fairly. Benefits of parliamentary procedure include the following:
        • Justice and courtesy for all
        • Maintenance of order
        • Consideration of one item at a time
        • All sides get heard
        • Ability for each member to provide input
        • Majority rule
        • Protection of the rights of all members including the minority

Basic Principles
        • A quorum must be present for business to be conducted
        • All members have equal rights, privileges and obligations
        • No person should speak until recognized by the chair
        • Personal remarks or side discussions during debate are out of order
        • Only one question at a time may be considered, and only one person may have the floor at
        any one time
        • Members have a right to know what the pending question is and to have it restated
        before a vote is taken
        • Full and free discussion of every main motion is a basic right
        • A majority decides a question except when basic rights of members are involved or a rule
        provides otherwise.
        • Silence gives consent. Those who do not vote allow the decision to be made by those who do
        vote.
        • The Chair should always remain impartial.

Basic Definitions
Motion – A formal proposal made to bring a subject before an assembly for its consideration and action.
        Begins with “I move that...”
Second – A statement by a member who agrees that the motion made by another member be
        considered. Stated as “Second,” or “I second the motion.”
Amendment – Before the vote is taken on a motion, it may be amended by:
        • Striking out words
        • Inserting or adding words
        • Striking out words and inserting others in their place
        • Substituting one (1) paragraph or resolution for another
Presiding officer/Chair – The individual who facilitates the meeting, usually the President.
        In the absence of the President, the Vice President is next.
        If neither are present, the Secretary calls the meeting to order and conducts an election for a
        Chairman Pro Tem (a presiding officer for that meeting only).

Role of the Presiding officer
        • To introduce business in proper order per the agenda
        • To recognize speakers
        • To determine if a motion is in order
        • To keep discussion focused on the pending motion
        • To maintain order
        • To put motions to a vote and announce results

General procedure for Handling a Main Motion
       • A member must obtain the floor by being recognized by the chair
       • Member makes a main motion
       • A motion must be seconded by another member before it can be considered
       • If the motion is in order, the chair will restate the motion and open debate
       • The maker of a motion has the right to speak first in debate
       • The main motion is debated along with any secondary motions that are debatable.
       • Debate on Subsidiary, Privileged and Incidental motions (if debatable or amendable) take
       precedence over debate on the main motion and must be decided before debate on the main
       motion can continue.
       • Debate is closed when: Discussion has ended, or A 2/3 vote closes debate.
       • The chair restates the motion, and if necessary clarifies the consequences of affirmative and
       negative votes
       • The chair calls for a vote by asking “All in favor?” Those in favor say “Aye.” Then asking “All
       opposed?” Those opposed will say “no”
       • The chair announces the result

General rules of Debate for small Boards
       • All discussion must be relevant to the immediately pending question
       • No member should speak more than twice to each debatable motion. The second time takes
       place after everyone wishing to debate the motion has had an opportunity to speak once
       • All remarks should be addressed to the chair – no cross debate is permitted
       • Debate must address issues not personalities
       • When possible, the chair should let the floor alternate between those speaking in support and
       those speaking in opposition to the motion
       • Members may not disrupt the assembly
       • Rules of debate can be changed by a 2/3 vote or general consent without objection
                                                       ROSENBERG’S RULES OF ORDER
                                                              CHEAT SHEET

To:                             You say:                                               Interrupt     Second      Debatable      Amendable        Vote
                                                                                       Speaker       Needed                                      Needed
Adjourn                         "I move that we adjourn"                               No            Yes         No             No               Majority
                                (Only needed prior to the end of the agenda)
Recess                          "I move that we recess until…"                         No            Yes         No             Yes              Majority
Complain about noise,           "Point of privilege"                                   Yes           No          No             No               Chair
room temp., etc.                                                                                                                                 Decides
Suspend further                 "I move that we table it"                              No            Yes         No             No               Majority
consideration of
something
End debate                      "I move the previous question" or “Call the question” No             Yes         No             No               2/3
Postpone                        "I move we postpone this matter until…"                No            Yes         Yes            Yes              Majority
consideration of
somethinga motion
Introduce                       “I move that…” or “I move to…”                         No            Yes         Yes            Yes              Majority
Amend a motion                  "I move that this motion be amended by…" (You          No            Yes         Yes            Yes              Majority
                                can also ask for a friendly amendment, which is
                                less formal; if mover and second concur, no vote
                                needed)
Refer to a Committee            “I move that the question be referred to a             No            Yes         Yes            Yes              Majority
                                committee for more study”
The above listed motions and points are listed in established order of precedence. When any one of them is pending, you may not introduce another
that is listed below, but you may introduce another that is listed above it.

To:                             You say:                                             Interrupt       Second      Debatable       Amendable Vote Needed
                                                                                     Speaker         Needed
Object to procedure             "Point of order"                                     Yes             No          No              No            Chair decides
or personal affront
Request information             "Point of information"                               Yes             No          No              No            None
Object to considering           "I object to consideration of this question"         Yes             No          No              No            2/3
some undiplomatic or            (This would generally just be used if something is
improper matter                 not on the agenda)
Reconsider                      "I move we now (or later) reconsider our action      Yes             Yes         Only if           No           Majority
something already               relative to…" (Only a member of the prevailing                                   original
disposed of                     side can make a motion to reconsider)                                            motion
Vote on a ruling by the Chair   "I appeal the Chair’s decision"                       Yes             Yes        was
                                                                                                                 Yes               No           Majority
                                                                                                                 debatabl
                                                                                                                 e
The motions, points and proposals listed above have no established order of preference; any of them may be introduced       at any time except when
meeting is considering one of the top three matters listed from the first chart (Motion to Adjourn, Recess or Point of Privilege).
    Appendix 11

Glossary of Acronyms
                                  Common Acronyms

Community and Economic Development
CED         Community and Economic Development
P&Z         Planning and Zoning
CDBG        Community Development Block Grant

MCCD           Murray City Center District
CBD            Central Business District
TOD            Transit Oriented Development District
MU             Mixed Use
CMU            Centers Mixed Use
VMU            Village Mixed Use
MCMU           Murray Central Mixed Use

LEED           Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design

CUP            Conditional Use Permit
ADU            Accessory Dwelling Unit
STR            Short Term Rental
PUD            Planned Unit Development
HOA            Homeowners Association
BRT            Bus Rapid Transit

DRC            Design Review Committee
PC             Planning Commission

EDCU           Economic Development Corporation of Utah
ICSC           International Council of Shopping Centers

NIMBY          Not in my Backyard
NIMFYE         Not In my Front Yard Either

City Council
COW            Committee of the Whole
CM             Council Meeting
RDA            Redevelopment Agency
MBA            Municipal Building Authority

Finance
ACFR           Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
GASB           Government Accounting Standards Board
ILOT           In Liew of Tax Transfer
CIP            Capital Improvements Program
                                 Common Acronyms

Human Resources
FLSA        Fair Labor Standards Act
ADA         Americans with Disabilities Act

Purchasing
RFP          Request for Proposal
RFQ          Request for Qualification
MOU          Memorandum of Understanding

Recorder
GRAMA        Government Records Access Management Act

Power
APPA         American Public Power Agency
CSRP         Colorado River Storage Project
FERC         Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
IPA          Intermountain Power Agency
IPP          Intermountain Power Project
LADWP        Los Angeles Department of Water & Power
NERC         North American Electric Reliability Council
NWPPA        Northwest Public Power Association
PX           Power Exchange
REC          Renewable Energy Credit (green tags)
UAMPS        Utah Associated Municipal Power Systems
UMPA         Utah Municipal Power Agency
WAPA         Western Area Power Administration

Organizations
AMC           Association of Municipal Councils
MSD           Murray School District
UIA           Utah Infrastructure Agency
UTOPIA        Utah Telecommunication Open Infrastructure Agency
VECC          Valley Emergency Communications Center
WFWRD         Wasatch Front Waste & Recycle District

NLC          National League of Cities
COG          Council of Governments
ULCT         Utah League of Cities and Towns
LPC          Legislative Policy Committee

UDOT         Utah Department of Transportation
UTA          Utah Transit Authority
                         RULES OF THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                   MURRAY CITY CORPORATION

       Adopted January 5, 1982. Re-adopted February 23, 1988. Amended April 26, 1988. Amended August 23, 1988.
       Amended April 25, 1989. Amended July 11, 1989. Amended December 12, 1989. Amended January 28, 1992. Amended
       January 25, 1994. Amended August 23, 1994. Amended July 11, 1995. Amended March 10, 1998. Amended June 9,
       1998. Amended September 21, 1998. Amended January 4, 2000. Amended January 16, 2001. Amended May 15, 2001.
       Amended January 8, 2002. Amended April 29, 2003. Amended November 13, 2007. Amended October 7, 2008, October
       20, 2009. Amended November 17, 2009, September 3, 2013, amended February 14, 2017, amended March 20, 2018,
       amended August 27, 2019, amended October 15, 2019, amended July 5, 2022.


I.         INTRODUCTION

       A. Function of Rules. These Rules shall be the governing procedures of the Murray City Municipal
       Council, hereafter referred to as the “Council”.
       B. Adoption. The Council shall adopt these Rules in a regular Council meeting.

       C. Amendment. Any member of the Council may propose amendments to these Rules.
       Amendments shall be submitted in writing to Council members. Amendments shall be approved by
       a two-thirds vote of the entire Council in a regular Council Meeting.

       D. Suspension. The Council may suspend the Rules by a two-thirds vote of Council members
       present.                                                                                                       Commented [JK1]: This section has been combined with the
                                                                                                                      "Foreward" section of the Council Handbook. The combined
                                                                                                                      information can be found in the "Foreword" section of the new
                                                                                                                      Policies and Procedures.
II.    ORGANIZATION
       A. Chair. A Chair shall be elected for each calendar year by majority vote of the Council in
      the first regular Council meeting in January. Council members may not serve more than two
      consecutive calendar years as Chair.
       The Chair shall be a member of the Council and its presiding officer, sign all ordinances, resolutions,
       and official correspondence, supervise staff, approve Council agendas, issue Council-approved press
       releases, represent the Council at meetings, represent the Council at official ceremonies where
       required, and shall serve as official spokesperson for the Council. The Chair shall also perform all
       other such duties prescribed by these Rules.
       B. Vice-Chair. A Vice-Chair shall be elected for each calendar year by majority vote of the
       Council in the first regular meeting in January.
       The Vice-Chair shall be the presiding Council officer in the temporary absence of the Chair, in the
       event that the Chair is incapacitated due to illness or is otherwise unable to attend Council meetings
       and shall sign as the Chair on all ordinances, resolutions, and official correspondence.
       C. Vacancy in Office of Chair. In the event that the Chair shall vacate his/her office for any
       reason before the term has expired, the Vice-Chair shall become Chair for the remainder of that
       term.
       D. Vacancy in the Office of Vice-Chair. In the event that the Vice-Chair shall vacate his/her
       office for any reason before his/her term has expired, the Council members, by a simple majority
       vote, shall elect a Vice-Chair to complete the term at the first regular Council meeting following the

Page | 1
       vacancy announcement.                                                                                 Commented [JK2]: This section can be found in the "Council
                                                                                                             Leadership" section of the new Policies and Procedures.
       E. Committees. The Council shall have two standing committees: (1) Committee of the
       Whole and (2) Budget and Finance Committee.

       1. The Budget and Finance Committee will convene exclusively for budget related meetings.

       2. Ad hoc committees may be formed as necessary by majority vote of the Council.

       F. Committee Membership. Each Council member shall be a member of both standing
       committees. The membership of ad hoc committees shall be determined by the Council at the time
       such committees are created.
       G. Committee Chairs. Committee Chairs shall be as follows:

       1.     The Council Chair shall serve as the Chair of the Committee of the Whole.

       2.     A Chair and Vice Chair of the Budget and Finance Committee shall be elected for a term of
              one calendar year in the first regular Council meeting in January. Council members may not
              serve more than two consecutive calendar years as Chair of the Budget and Finance
              Committee.

       3.     Board and Committee Membership. Membership on the following committees shall be
              determined in the Committee of the Whole meeting.
                a.   Association of Municipal Councils/Salt Lake County Council of Governments
                b.   Utah League of Cities and Towns/Legislative Policy Committee.
                c.   Murray Area Chamber of Commerce Board.
                d.   Other committees as deemed necessary.
              Committee members above shall be elected for a term of one calendar year in the first
              regular Committee of the Whole meeting in January.                                             Commented [JK3]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                             "Committees" section of the new Policies and Procedures.


       I. Absences. Council Members shall forfeit any leadership position by failing to attend four
       consecutive regular meetings of the Council (not including Work Sessions) without being excused by
       the Council. Members of the Council may ask to be excused by following the procedure described in
       this paragraph. The member shall contact the Council Chair (and if the Chair seeks an excused
       absence, the Vice-Chair) prior to the meeting and state the reason for the inability to attend the
       meeting. If the member is unable to contact the Chair, the member shall contact the Vice-Chair or
       the Executive Director, who shall convey the message to the Chair. Following the call to order, the
       Chair (or councilmember conducting) shall inform the Council of the member’s absence, state the
       reason for such absence, and inquire if there is a motion to excuse the member. Upon passage of
       such motion by a majority of members present, the absent member shall be considered excused
       and appropriate notations in the minutes.                                                             Commented [JK4]: This section can be found in the "Meeting"
                                                                                                             section of the new Policies and Procedures.



III. MEETINGS

       A. Regular Meetings. The City Council shall meet not less than once monthly.
       B. Open Meetings. All Council meetings shall be governed by the Utah Open and Public Meetings


Page | 2
       Act.
       C. Type of Meetings. The Council shall meet in Council Meetings, closed meetings, workshops,
       retreats and committee meetings as provided by State law.

        D. Time and Place. As provided by City ordinance, the Council shall meet for Council Meetings, and
       committee meetings at the following times and places:

       1. Committee of the Whole. The first and third Tuesdays of each month, at a time determined by
          the Council Chair, unless cancelled by the Chair.
       2. Budget and Finance Committee. As approved by the Council.

       3. Council Meeting. The first and third Tuesdays of each month at 6:30 p.m., (or otherwise
          at a time determined by the Council) in the Council Chambers in the Murray City Center,
         unless cancelled by the Chair.
       4. Special meetings including workshops and retreats may be held as provided by State law and
          City Ordinance.

       5. Closed meetings. As per State Code Sections 52-4-204 and 52-4-205, before any part of a public
          meeting may be closed for one of the valid reasons detailed below, the Council must be called
          together in an open meeting. At least two-thirds (2/3) of the Council members present must
          vote to close the meeting. The Council may close portions of its meetings to do the following:

              a. Discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an
                 individual.
              b. Hold a strategy session to discuss collective bargaining.
              c. Hold a strategy session to discuss pending or reasonable imminent litigation.
              d. Hold a strategy session to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property when
                 public discussion of the transaction would disclose the appraisal or estimated value of
                 the property under consideration or prevent the public body from completing the
                 transaction.
              e. Hold a strategy session to discuss the sale of real property.
              f. Discuss the deployment of security devices and investigative proceedings regarding
                 criminal conduct.

           No ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, contract or appointment can be approved at a
           closed meeting. The closed portion of a meeting must be recorded and detailed minutes
           may be kept. These recordings and minutes are protected records under the Government
           Records Access and Management Act.
       E. Neighborhood Meetings. Neighborhood meetings may be scheduled away from the Council's
       usual meeting place for the purpose of gathering or sharing information regarding current matter(s)
       being considered by the Council. The Council Executive Director shall arrange for a suitable place for
       such meetings.
        F. Rules. The Council shall conduct its meetings according to the most current edition of Robert’s
       Rules of Order, as amended by these Rules, provided the Council may, by majority vote, waive a
       rule.
       G. Minutes. The Council Executive Director ensures that minutes are taken of all Council,
       committee and special meetings. The City Recorder shall cause to be kept, in a format adopted by


Page | 3
       the Council, minutes of all proceedings of all regular and special Council meetings. A recording shall
       be kept of all Council, committee and special meetings.
       H. Presiding Officer at Meetings. The presiding officer at Council Meetings shall be rotated monthly
       among Council members according to district (District 1, District 2, etc.). If the presiding officer is
       not present or declines this responsibility, the Council Chair shall preside.

       I. Order of Calling the Vote. The City Recorder shall call the vote beginning with the Council District
       number immediately higher than the District number of the Council Member presiding at that
       meeting. This shall ensure that the Council Member presiding shall always vote last.
        J. Electronic Means of Meeting Participation. Section 52-4-207 of the Utah Code Annotated
       authorizes public bodies to hold meetings electronically by means of a telephonic,
       telecommunications or computer conference. The Council adopts the use of electronic means for a
       Council Member to participate in a meeting under the following conditions:

       1. The meeting will be held with a quorum (3 members) physically present;
       2. Electronic means will be used only for a declared City emergency or to accommodate
          Council Members who are traveling outside the City;
       3. The meeting will be held within City limits at a facility that allows the public to attend,
          monitor and participate in open portions of the meeting;

       4. Comments of Council Members participating electronically will be audible to the public;
       5. As with any public meeting, electronic meetings must be properly noticed in compliance
          with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act. Additionally, the notice must inform the public
          that electronic means will be used and how Council Members will be electronically connected to
          the meeting.                                                                                           Commented [JK5]: This section can be found in the "Meetings"
                                                                                                                 section of the new Policies and Procedures.
IV. AGENDAS
       A. Responsibility. The Council Executive Director shall see that agendas are properly prepared,
       posted, and published in a timely manner according to the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.

       B. Public Notice. Council agendas shall be posted in the Murray City Center, submitted to a
       newspaper of general circulation in Murray City, posted on the Utah Public Notice Website and on
       the Murray City website.
       C. Submission of Agenda Items. Procedures for submitting items for the agenda are as follows:
       1.     Topics may be added to the agenda: (a) at the discretion of the Mayor; or (b) as directed by
              at least two Council members.
       2.     Anyone wishing to bring a matter before the Council shall submit their request in writing,
              together with forms approved by the Council, to the Council staff. In order to add such
              matters, the request must be approved by the Mayor or two Council Members.
       3.     All new items for the agenda must be submitted by 5:00 p.m. the Wednesday thirteen (13)
              days prior to the Council meeting. The Chair may waive an item from this requirement.

       4.     The Council Executive Director shall ensure that all matters are submitted in a timely manner
              to the Council. Before matters are placed on the agenda, they must first be reviewed by the

Page | 4
              Council Chair.
       5.     Council staff shall review supporting materials to be considered by the Council and ensure
              the completeness of the materials.

       D. Delivery to Council Members. The agenda, together with all documents relating to items on it,
       shall be delivered to Council members as preliminary documents approximately eleven (11) days
       prior to the meeting, and the final agenda and documents will be delivered by the Friday prior to the
       Council meeting. The Chair may waive this requirement.
       E. Notice of Meeting. All Council agendas and "Notice of Meeting" documents shall contain the
       following:
                                                   NOTICE


       SPECIAL ACCOMMODATIONS FOR THE HEARING OR VISUALLY IMPAIRED WILL BE MADE UPON A
       REQUEST DIRECTED TO THE OFFICE OF THE MURRAY CITY RECORDER (801-264-2660). WE WOULD
       APPRECIATE NOTIFICATION TWO WORKING DAYS PRIOR TO THE MEETING. TDD NUMBER IS 801-
       270- 2425 or CALL RELAY UTAH AT #711.
       F. Order of Business. The Council agenda shall conform to the following order of business:

       1.     Committee of the Whole
              a. Approval of Minutes
              b. Discussion Items
              c. Internal Council Business or Announcements
                      (1) Staff Report
                      (2) Other
              d. Adjournment

       2.     Council Meeting
              a.      Opening Ceremonies
                      (1) Pledge of Allegiance
                      (2) Approval of Minutes
                      (3) Special Recognition(s)
              b. Citizen Comments
              c. Consent Agenda
              d. Public Hearings
              e. Business Items

              f. Mayor
                     (1) Report
                     (2) Questions to the Mayor
              g. Adjournment
NOTE: Paragraphs G through N elaborate on the various provisions of the agenda.

       G. Committee of the Whole. The purpose of the Committee of the Whole meeting is: (1) To
       consider items of internal Council business, (2) To give further consideration to items of business
       referred to the Committee of the Whole from the New Business section of the agenda, and (3) To
       review items that may require future action by the Council.
       Business items referred to Committee of the Whole from the Council agenda are sent for discussion

Page | 5
       purposes. No vote will be taken on these business items in Committee of the Whole.
       All business items considered in Committee of the Whole shall be scheduled for a specific time.

       H. Opening Ceremonies. This portion of the Council agenda shall consist of the following
           1. Call to Order
           2. Pledge of Allegiance
       I. Approval of Minutes

       J. Special Recognition. Under this part of the Opening Ceremonies section of the agenda, the
          Council shall consider resolutions of commendation, condolences and appreciation, and similar
          ceremonial matters.
            The order of business for consideration of resolutions under this section shall be as follows:

            a.   Reading of the resolution
            b.   Motion to adopt
            c.   Discussion
            d.   Vote on motion
            e.   Presentation of resolution and response.
       K. Citizen Comments. This section allows any citizen or organization to speak before the Council and
       the Mayor, or to email comments if unable to attend the Council meeting in person. Items for
       which the Council would like to receive additional public input will be specifically listed for that
       purpose in this section. Comments are limited to three minutes, unless otherwise approved by a
       majority vote of Council members. Emailed comments are limited to 300 words, and must include
       the person’s name and address in order to be included in the record.
       L. Consent Agenda. This section contains items of routine business, all requiring action, but not
       expected to generate discussion. Each item is briefly reviewed by the presiding officer and any
       Council Member wishing to do so may ask for any of the items on the Consent Agenda to be taken
       out and placed on the regular agenda.
        M. Public Hearings. This section will be used for all public hearings. The presiding officer shall
       conduct the public hearing in the following manner, except as waived by the Council:


       1.        Introduction. The presiding officer informs those attending of the procedure and
                 order of business for the hearing and reads the item for consideration.
       2.        Staff presentation. City staff briefly summarizes the request that prompted the public
                 hearing. This presentation shall not exceed five minutes, unless otherwise approved
                  by a majority vote of Council members.

       3.        Sponsor presentation. If desired, the sponsor of the request may also make a presentation.
                 This presentation shall not exceed fifteen minutes, unless otherwise approved by a majority
                 vote of Council members.

       4.         Comment. The presiding officer asks for public comment on the matter before the Council.
                 This public comment portion allows any citizen or organization to speak to the item before
                 the Council. Comments are limited to three minutes, unless otherwise approved by a
                 majority vote of Council members, and each speaker shall be allowed to speak only once,
                 unless otherwise approved by a majority of Council members. If unable to attend the Council


Page | 6
               meeting in person, a person may submit email comments on the public hearing. Emailed
               comments are limited to 300 words and must include the person’s name and address in
               order to be included in the record. Speakers are requested to:

               a.     Complete the appropriate form.
               b.     Wait to be recognized before speaking.
               c.     Come to the microphone and state their name and city of residence.
               d.     Be brief and to the point.
               e.     Not restate points made by other speakers.
               f.     Address questions through the presiding officer.
               g.     Confine remarks to the topic, avoiding personality differences.
               After all citizens who wish to comment have spoken, Council members may ask additional
               questions of participants before the presiding officer closes the hearing.

       5.      Sponsor summation/response. Following citizen comment and questions by the Council, the
               sponsor or staff shall be given the opportunity to give a fifteen-minute summation and/or
               response prior to closing of the public hearing.
       6.      Closing the hearing. If there is no further public comment, questions by Council members, or
               final response by the sponsor, the presiding officer declares the hearing closed.
       7.      Consideration of item. At the close of the public hearing, the Council shall consider the item
               for action.

       N.      Unfinished Business. The Unfinished Business section is to be used for consideration of:
       1.      Items which have been referred out of a committee.
       2.      Items which have appeared as New Business on a previous agenda and which no action has
               been taken on the item.
      O. New Business. The New Business section of the Council agenda shall be for the
      introduction of all new business to be considered by the Council. The Council may, by
      majority vote, (1) send a business item to committee, (2) postpone final action to a future
      meeting, or (3) take final action on the matter.
       P. Mayor. "Report" affords the Mayor the opportunity to regularly report to the Council
      about City business. "Questions to the Mayor" affords all members of the Council an
      opportunity to ask questions or raise issues of concern to the Mayor and to request
      appropriate action.
       Q. Adjournment.                                                                                          Commented [JK6]: This section can be found in the "Agendas"
                                                                                                                section of the new Policies and Procedures.


V. VACANCY IN ELECTED OFFICE
   A. Council. If a Council member vacates his/her seat on the Council before the term of office
      expires, the Council shall fill the vacant seat, as provided by State laws and City ordinance, and in
      accordance with the following rules:
       1.      Applicants shall be qualified for the office in accordance with all applicable State laws and
               City ordinance.


Page | 7
       2.     Applicants shall complete an application form available through the Council office.
       3.     The Council shall, within thirty (30) days of the occurrence and declaration of such
              Vacancy, appoint a qualified resident of the City and the appropriate Council District
              to fill the unexpired term.

   B. Mayor. If the Mayor vacates his/her office before the term of office expires, the Council
      shall fill that office, as provided by State laws and the City Ordinance, and in accordance with the
      following rules:
       1. Applicants shall be qualified for the office in accordance with all applicable State laws and City
          ordinance.
       2. Applicants shall complete an application form available through the Council office.

       3. The Council shall, within thirty (30) days of the occurrence and declaration of such
          Vacancy appoint a qualified resident of the City to fill the unexpired term.
       4. The City Council Chair shall become acting Mayor until the vacancy in the office of the Mayor is
          filled by the City Council as above provided.                                                        Commented [JK7]: This section can be found in the "Vacancy
                                                                                                               in an Elected Office" section of the new Policies and Procedures.
VI. PERSONNEL

       A. Council Staff. The Council staff shall consist of a Council Executive Director an Office
       Administrator II, and such other full-and part time staff as the Council may deem necessary.
       B. Appointment. All Council staff members are appointed by the Council as follows:
       1.     Job Descriptions. The Council reviews and approves all job descriptions for Council
              staff members.

       2.     Posting and interviews. All arrangements for job posting and interviews are handled
              by the Council staff.
       3.     Council Executive Director. Applicants are interviewed by the Council Chair and Vice Chair.
              Finalists may be interviewed by the Council, which selects the person by majority vote from
              that group.
       4.     Other staff. The Council Executive Director with council member involvement interviews
              applicants and recommends finalists to the Council, which selects the person from that
              group.
       C. Reporting relationships. The Council Executive Director is supervised by the Chair of the Council.
       The Council Executive Director supervises all other Council staff.
       D. Performance appraisal. Performance appraisals of Council staff shall be conducted
           annually using the Performance Pro program provided by the City Human Resource office as
       follows:
       1.     The Council Chair and Vice Chair shall conduct the performance appraisal for the
              Council Executive Director.

       2.     The Council Executive Director shall conduct the appraisal for all other staff members.


Page | 8
       3.        Compensation increases, exclusive of COLAs, shall be based on the
                 performance appraisal subject to appropriation of funds.
       E. Compensation and Step Plan. Council staff compensation is determined by the Council and
       changed as follows:

       1.        Council Executive Director compensation may be reevaluated periodically, and changes
                 made based on performance and/or completion of a Wasatch Compensation Salary Survey,
                 subject to appropriation of funds.
       2.        Council staff compensation is based on the annual performance appraisal and the Step Plan,
                 subject to appropriation of funds.
           3.   Each staff member shall receive an annual COLA in the same amount and at the same
                time as other City employees.

VII. FINANCES
       A. Council Budget. Each year, the Council Executive Director shall work with the Council Chair and
       submit a proposed budget for Council operations to the members of the Council for their review and
       approval.
       B. Review of Council Expenditures. The Council Chair shall have general responsibility to see that all
       expenditures are made on time and within budget.

       C. Public Relations Account. The Council hereby authorizes the creation of a public relations
       account.
       D. Purpose of the Public Relations Account. The purpose of the public relations account is to
       provide a mechanism for the Council as a whole to purchase and deliver token remembrances or
       acknowledgments. The events listed below shall be considered first priority use for account funds;
       all secondary uses not listed, and the donation amounts shall be informally approved by a majority
       of Council Members. Council Staff will assist in all transactions.
       1.        Death or serious illness of an employee or an employee’s immediate family;

       2.        Retirement of a City employee.
       E. Funds to the Public Relations Account. The public relations account is to be funded solely from
       the pay of Council members by payroll deduction. The amount deducted shall be decided by a vote
       of the Council.
       F. Review of Public Relations Account Expenditures. The Council Chair shall have general
       responsibility to see that all expenditures are made properly. Disbursement from the Account shall
       require authorized signature. Those authorized to sign on the Account are the Council Chair,
       Council Vice-Chair, Council Executive Director or a designee appointed by the Council Chair in
       writing.
       G. Expenses Relating to Neighborhood Meetings. Costs associated with Neighborhood meetings
       shall be funded from the Council Office budget.


       H. Cellular Phones. Council Members will be provided with cellular phone allowances for use in
       conducting City business during their term of office as determined by the City cell phone policy.

Page | 9
         I. Electronic Device. Council Members will be provided an iPad or similar tablet for use in
         conducting City business during their term of office.

         J. Expense Allowance. Council Members will be provided a monthly allowance to offset the costs for
         meetings, meals and local travel while conducting City business during their term of office.             Commented [JK8]: This section can be found in the "City
                                                                                                                  Council Office" section of the new Policies and Procedures.
 VIII.   INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL AUDIT.

         A. The City is required to have an annual independent audit or review of the City’s basic financial
            statements and Comprehensive Annual Financial Report to determine whether the City’s
            financial reporting accurately reflects the financial condition of the City and is prepared in
            conformity with criteria established by Generally Accepted Audit Standards, Government
            Auditing Standards, the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, and General Guidance Audits for
            State, Local Governments and Non-Profit Organizations.

         B. Upon expiration of a financial audit agreement, the City Council shall work with the Council
            Executive Director, City Recorder/Purchasing Agent, and Finance and Administration Director to
            create a Request for Proposals (RFP) to provide auditing services.

         C. The City Council will form an Audit Committee to review and score proposals and
            recommend an independent audit firm to the City Council for consideration.

         D. Upon approval of the audit firm and agreement, the City Council Chair shall be authorized to
            execute the agreement for auditing services.

         E. The Audit Committee shall consist of the City Council Budget and Finance Committee Chair and
            Vice-Chair, and the Council Executive Director as staff support. This committee shall convene as
            required:

                1. During the selection of the audit firm;
                2. Annually to review audit procedures and conclusions, and
                3. For any other such purposes as the City Council deems appropriate.                             Commented [JK9]: This section can be found in the "Audit"
                                                                                                                  section of the new Policies and Procedures.

IX.      COUNCIL RELATIONS
         A. Anti-Harassment Policy

             4. It is City policy to foster and maintain a work environment that is free from discrimination
                and intimidation. Toward this end, the City will not tolerate harassment of any kind that is
                made by City Councilmembers toward fellow Councilmembers, City Staff or members of the
                public. City Councilmembers are expected to show respect for one another and the public at
                all times, despite individual differences.

             5. Harassment is unwelcome conduct that is based on race, color, religion, sex (including
                pregnancy, childbirth and related medical conditions), national origin, age (40 or older),
                disability, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation, honorably discharged
                veteran or military status or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical disability or the
                use of a trained dog guide or service animal by a person with a disability. In some
                circumstances, it can be deemed unlawful discrimination that violates federal laws and/or

 Page | 10
               state laws. The making of demeaning comments, whether verbally or in writing, or use of
               unwelcome epithets, gestures or other physical conduct, based on the above-referenced
               protected classes, toward employees, Councilmembers or members of the public are
               prohibited. Councilmembers are strongly urged to report all incidents of harassment.

            6. Sexual harassment is a form of unlawful discrimination.

       B. Reporting Discrimination or Harassment

       1.      If the incident involves a city employee, or an appointee to an advisory board or a
               commission, the incident should be reported as soon as possible to the Mayor.
       2.      If the incident involves a Councilmember, the incident should be reported as soon as
               possible to the City Attorney.

       3.      All complaints will be investigated promptly. Upon receiving a complaint, an investigation
               shall be initiated within 24 hours, or as reasonably practicable, usually, by the end of the
               next business day.
       4.      All complaints will be kept confidential to the fullest extent possible and will be disclosed
               only as necessary to allow an investigation and response to the complaint. No one will be
               involved in the investigation or response except those with a need to know. Any special
               concerns about confidentiality will be addressed at the time they are raised.

       5.      Anyone who is found to have violated this policy is subject to corrective action. Corrective
               action will depend on the gravity of the offense. The City Council will take whatever action it
               deems necessary to prevent an offense from being repeated.
       6.      The City Council will not permit retaliation against anyone who makes a complaint or who
               cooperates in an investigation.

       7.      Both the person filing the complaint and the alleged offender shall receive a written
               response that contains the findings of the investigation and any action taken. Unless extra
               time is needed for a thorough investigation, the response will normally be given within thirty
               (30) days of when the complaint was received. All parties will be notified of an extended
               investigation if such an extension is necessary to complete the findings.                         Commented [JK10]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                 "Discrimination and Harassment" section of the new Policies and
                                                                                                                 Procedures.




Page | 11
  Murray City
Municipal Council




  Handbook



                    1
                                                Table of Contents




Forward                                    3
I.        Form of Government               4

II.       Legislative Power                5

III.      Mayor’s Powers and Duties        6

IV.       City Council Powers and Duties   7

V.        Murray City Council Processes    9

VI.       Meetings                         14

VII.      Committees                       17

VIII.     Council Leadership               19

IX.       Ethics                           20

X.        Council Staff                    21
XI.       Internal Provisions              22

References                                 23

Appendix                                   24




                                                               2
                                                                                                              Foreward




This Handbook provides information and guidelines to Murray City (“City”) Council Members (“Council Members”)
regarding their powers, duties, responsibilities, and procedures. These guidelines shall be used to train Council
Members.

Failure to follow the guidelines provided in this Handbook shall not invalidate any action taken by the Council or be
deemed a violation of any law, although, some sections of this Handbook are taken from Utah Code and Murray
City Municipal Code. Unless required by law, the Council may, at times, suspend application of certain guidelines
provided in this Handbook.

The Council may revise the contents of this Handbook as needed.

This Handbook is effective September 3, 2013 and shall remain in effect unless amended otherwise by the Council.

This Handbook has been revised and updated November of 2019 for training purposes.                                          Commented [JK1]: This section has been combined with
                                                                                                                            the "Introduction" section of the Council Rules. The
                                                                                                                            combined information can be found in the "Foreword"
                                                                                                                            section of the new Policies and Procedures.




                                                                                                                        3
                                                                              I.      Form of Government




A city or town is a creation and subdivision of the State of Utah and has only those powers specifically
given them by an act of the state legislature. In Utah there are a series of enabling acts, which give specific
duties and authority to cities and towns. These are found generally in the Utah Municipal Code, Title 10,
of the Utah Code.
Murray City initially created a Mayor-Council form of government upon incorporation in 1901. In 1911, a
State law changed the form of government for cities of the First and Second Class in Utah from the old
council form to the Commission form of government. This form was reversed in 1981, by a City election
when the City adopted the Mayor-Council (or Strong Mayor) form of government, which included an elect-
ed Mayor and five City Council members. In 2008, the legislature repealed the Optional Forms of Munici-
pal Government Act and recodified the provisions in what is now called the Forms of Municipal Govern-
ment. Municipalities that had previously adopted the Mayor-Council form of government continue on in
the new Council-Mayor form of government. Other municipalities with that form of government include
Logan, Ogden, Marriott-Slaterville, Salt Lake City, South Salt Lake City, Taylorsville City, Murray City, Sandy
City and Provo City. (Utah Code 10-3b-201, et seq.) West Jordan becomes a Council-Mayor form in January
2020.
The Council-Mayor form of government vests power in two separate, independent, and equal branches
that mimic Utah and United States government with inherent checks and balances, and a Justice Court.
        A. The Mayor is the chief executive and administrative officer of the municipality and exercises
        supervision over the executive and administrative departments and divisions of the City.
        B. The Murray City Council exercises the legislative powers of the City and consists of five Council
        Members elected from five separate geographic Council districts of substantially equal population
        in the City.                                                                                                  Commented [JK2]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                      "Murray City's Form of Government" section of the new
        C. The Mayor and Council Members are elected for four-year staggered terms.                                   Policies and Procedures.

                1. Elections for Council Districts 1, 3, and 5, shall be held in the year preceding a
                presidential election year.
                2. Elections for Districts 2 and 4 along with the Mayor shall be held in the year following a
                year in which a presidential election was held.
                3. All municipal elections are non-partisan.                                                          Commented [JK3]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                      "Elections" section of the new Policies and Procedures.




                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                      II. Legislative Power




The Utah Supreme Court has defined legislative powers as policymaking powers. Legislative power, as dis-
tinguished from Executive power, is the authority to make laws, but not to enforce them or appoint the
people charged with the duty to enforce. The power to enforce and to appoint are executive function.
They are the acts necessary to carry out legislative policies and purposes and are deemed acts of admin-
istration.
A policy is a deliberate system of principles to guide decisions and achieve outcomes. It is a statement of
intent, and is implemented as a procedure or protocol.
It is the responsibility and prerogative of the Council to create, develop, revise, and approve policy for the
City. Policy directives are used by the Mayor and Council in strategically moving the City forward and ad-
vancing any particular initiative.
Policy may be adopted by ordinance or resolution in a public meeting, duly noticed, and adopted by the
Council acting as a group.




                                                                                                                 5
                                                                     III.       Mayor’s Powers and Duties



                                  A. The Mayor is the chief executive officer of the City exercising
                                     executive powers and supervising the performance of
                                     administrative duties and functions of the City.
B. The Mayor shall:

        1. Enforce the laws of the City ;

        2. Execute the policies adopted by the City Council;
        3. Supervise employees of the City, except staff to the City Council;
        4. Exercise control of all departments and divisions of the City;

        5. Hire and make all appointments of City administration, officers, department directors,
        committees, boards, and commissions, subject to City Council advice and consent where
        required by state law. Reports any dismissal to the City Council;
        6. Prepare the annual City budget;
        7. Keep the City Council informed as to the needs and financial condition of the City, including
        an annual report of the City’s affairs;
        8. Issue administrative regulations and general procedures, that are not in conflict with City or
        state laws;
        9. Inform the City Council of changes in programs, regulations and procedures.
                                  C. The Mayor may veto ordinances, tax levies and appropriations,
                                     subject to City Council veto override as provided by state law.
D.   The Mayor under the council-mayor form does not vote or chair the meetings of the Council.                 Commented [JK4]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                "Mayor's Powers and Duties" section of the new Policies
                                                                                                                and Procedures.




                                                                                                            6
                                                                IV.      City Council Powers and Duties



A. The City Council is the legislative body of the City. The Utah Supreme Court has defined legislative
   powers as policymaking powers.
B. The City Council shall:

        1. Exercise legislative powers of the City;
        2. Pass ordinances and resolutions;
        3. Prescribe general policies to be followed by the Mayor in exercising executive power;
        4. Appropriate funds, setting appropriate tax levies for general City and Library services;
        5. Adopt the City budget;
        6. Review municipal administration;
        7. Establish sewer, water, storm water, and power rates;
        8. Set other general tax and service rates;
        9. By ordinance, provide for the manner in which city property is bought, sold, traded,
        encumbered or otherwise transferred;
        10. Provide for the manner in which a subdivision or annexation is approved, disapproved or
        other wise regulated;
        11. Supervise, appoint, direct its own staff and establish job descriptions and compensation;

        12. Give advice and consent to the Mayor on all proposed appointments of City department
        directors, statutory officers, boards, commissions, committees or other bodies established to
        provide advice or assistance to the operation of the City.
C. The City Council may:
        1. Review and monitor City administration, conduct public hearings and perform other duties as
        authorized by state law;
        2. Create, consolidate, or abolish departments; and define or alter the functions and duties of
        each department;
        3. Appoint a committee of City Council Members or citizens to conduct an investigation into a
        department of the City; or any other matter relating to the welfare of the City;
        4. Make and enforce any additional rule or regulation for its internal operations, the preserva-
        tion of order, and the transaction of the City Council’s business that it considers necessary;
        5. Not withstanding Section 2.04.030 C 2. of City Code make recommendations to any City
        employee;                                                                                              Commented [JK5]: This section can be found in the "City
                                                                                                               Council Powers and Duties" section of the new Policies and
                                                                                                               Procedures.




                                                                                                           7
                                                               IV.     City Council Powers and Duties




        6. Reconsider a Mayor’s veto at the next meeting following such veto. The Council
        approves the action by a two-thirds majority of all Council Members for the
        ordinance, tax levy or appropriation to take effect.
D. A City Council Member may not:
        1. Have any other compensated employment with the City;
        2. Interfere in any way with a City employee’s performance, other than Council
        staff, or publicly or privately give orders to a City employee of the Mayor.                       Commented [JK6]: This section can be found in the "City
                                                                                                           Council Powers and Duties" section of the new Policies and
E. Vacancy in Elected Office: If a Council Member or mayor vacates his/her seat before the                 Procedures.
        term of office expires, the City Council shall fill the vacant seat in the following manner.
        1. Applicants shall be qualified for the office in accordance with all applicable State
        laws and City ordinance.

        2. Applicants shall complete an application form available through the City Council
        office.
        3. Within thirty (30) days of the occurrence and declaration of such Vacancy, the
        Council shall appoint a qualified resident of the City or the appropriate Council
        District to fill the unexpired term. This shall occur in a duly noticed Council meeting.

        4. In the case of vacancy in the office of mayor, the City Council Chair shall become
        acting Mayor until the vacancy in the office of the Mayor is filled as provided.                   Commented [JK7]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                           "Vacancy in an Elected Office" section of the new Policies
                                                                                                           and Procedures.




                                                                                                       8
                                                                   V      Murray City Council Processes




A. Ordinances and resolutions may be initiated by either the City Council or the Administration.
        1. City Council initiatives: Council Members may sponsor proposed legislation. Consult with the
        Council Executive Director, conduct research, and determine process and timing. Hold a Committee
        of the Whole or Council workshop for discussion and determine fellow Council Members support.
        Work with the City Attorney’s office on proposed ordinance or resolution wording. Present to the City
        Council for consideration at a Council Meeting.
        2. Administrative issues: Research is conducted by the departments in conjunction with the Mayor.
        Ordinances and/or resolutions are created before being presented to the City Council.
        3. Ordinances and Resolutions are used to exercise Council responsibilities, such as:
                • Adopting policy;

                • Adopting the tax levy and annual budget;

                • Setting service rates—water, power, golf, etc.

                • Approving master plans, annexations, zoning revisions, and other land use matters.

B. Advice and Consent: Certain positions are appointed by the Mayor with Advice and Consent of the
Council. Upon presentation to the Council of an appointment, the Council must either approve or reject the
Mayor’s appointment. The process is as follows:
        1. Department Directors, City Engineer, City Treasurer, and City Recorder.
            •     The Mayor forwards a proposed appointment to the Council with application, resume, and
                  references.
            •     The Council may schedule an open or closed session to interview the candidate before Advice
                  and Consent is considered.
            •     Following the interview Council Advice and Consent will be determined in an open Council
                  meeting.
        2. Representatives to quasi-governmental boards, City boards and commissions.

            •     The Council may conduct Advice and Consent based on applications and resumes.                     Commented [JK8]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                    "Governance" section of the new Policies and Procedures.




                                                                                                                9
                                                                   V. Murray City Council Processes



C. Budget: Each fiscal year ( July 1—June 30) the Council has the responsibility to adopt the annual City
   Budget including the Capital Improvement Program allocations. A budget can be a planning tool to convey
   what the City expects to accomplish during the fiscal year. The budget should be a reflection of policy pri-
   orities, an operations plan, and a tool for communicating to the public how revenues are used in the City’s
   best interests.
       1. Early in the calendar year, the Council may meet with the Finance Director to discuss revenue
       forecasts and expenditure priorities for the coming year. The Finance Director will relay this
       information in meetings with the Mayor as he/she prepares the Mayor’s Budget.
       2. The Mayor works with the Finance Director and Department Directors to determine appropriate
       funding of public service levels, personnel costs, operations of City departments, operations and
       maintenance of City facilities and equipment, capital improvement projects, and proposed revenue
       and reserve balances.
       3. The Capital Improvement Program Committee will meet in the Spring to review the proposed
       capital expenditures for the fiscal year. Recommendations will be included in the Mayor’s Tentative
       Budget.
       3. The Mayor’s Annual Tentative Budget: As provided in State Code, the Mayor’s Tentative Budget
       must be submitted to the Council by the first regular Council meeting in May.
       4. Council Review and Department Meetings: The Council has the right to adjust, in whole or in part,
       the Mayor’s tentative budget. The Council will meet with each Department Director to review budgets
       and make adjustments.
       5. The Council’s Tentative Budget will be adopted during a Council meeting in May and a public hear-
       ing will be set for a Council meeting in June.
       6. Transfers from Enterprise Funds: As provided in State Code, if transfers from enterprise funds are
       included in the budget a notice must be sent to utility customers and a separate public hearing must
       be held.
       7. Budget Public Hearing: As provided in State Code, a budget public hearing shall be held in June.
       Changes to the tentative budget may be made following the public hearing.
       8. Budget Final Adoption: Final adoption of the City Budget must occur before June 30.
       9. Property Tax Increase proposed: The process changes if a property tax increase is proposed in the
       budget. A Truth in Taxation hearing will be set by the county and the final budget approval must oc-
       cur before September 1 of the budget year.

       10. A property tax levy for the City and Murray Library shall be adopted by the City Council.
       11. Appropriations may not exceed estimated revenue in the final budget.
       12. The Council Executive Director will prepare the budget policy intent document to be considered
       and adopted with the budget.                                                                                 Commented [JK9]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                    "Budget Oversight and Process" section of the new Policies
                                                                                                                    and Procedures.
                                                                                                               10
                                                                  V        Murray City Council Processes




D. Annual Audit and Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR): As provided in State Code the City is re-
   quired to have an annual independent audit or review of the City’s basic financial statements and Compre-
   hensive Annual Financial Report to determine whether the City’s financial reporting accurately reflects the
   financial condition of the City.
        1. The City Council is responsible for hiring the audit firm as set forth in the Rules of the Murray City
        Council and according to the City procurement ordinance.
        2. The financial audit shall be completed, presented to the City Council, and submitted to the State
        Auditor before December 31 of each year.
        3. The CAFR assists the City Council in reviewing municipal administration and providing financial over
        sight of the City‘s financial affairs.                                                                           Commented [JK10]: his section can be found in the
                                                                                                                         "Audit" section of the new Policies and Procedures.
E. Review of Municipal Administration: The Council may exercise its oversight role of the City administration
   by conducting management, performance and service reviews that may target a particular department or
   program. The scope of the review may include examination of efficient and effective service levels, the
   effectiveness of programs or departments. Suggested process may include:
        1. Proposed reviews can be placed on a Committee of the Whole or Council Workshop agenda for
        Council discussion.
        2. Internal reviews may include members of the Council and administration on a review team.
        3. If an outside consultant is used, the City procurement ordinance shall be followed. The Council shall
        have the final decision regarding consultant selection for the review process.
            •   The administration should be informed of the Council’s concerns.

            •   A steering committee should be established with Council members and appropriate staff
                to assist in the review process.
            •   The details and objectives of the review shall be discussed and a timeline established.
            •   Interim meetings of the steering committee and consultant may be necessary.
            •   A final draft of the consultants’ findings should be prepared and presented at a Committee of
                the Whole meeting.
            •   Once the final report has been presented to the Council, the Mayor will have an opportunity
                to respond to the recommendations, and outline how the recommendations may be
                implemented.                                                                                             Commented [JK11]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                         "Governance" section of the new Policies and Procedures.




                                                                                                                    11
                                                                 V       Murray City Council Processes



F. Land Use— Utah municipalities have been granted broad powers to control land use and development by
  the Utah State Legislature. In part the statute reads:
        “The purposes of this chapter are to provide for the health, safety, and welfare and promote the
        prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of each
        municipality and its present and future inhabitants and businesses, to protect the tax
        base………………………………….”             (Utah Code 10-9a-102.)
  However, that power is limited by the procedures you have to follow to exercise the power and by both
  State and Federal statutory and constitutional law.
  As a Council Member you will likely consider:
        1.      General Plan adoption or amendments;
        2.      Land Use ordinance text amendments;
        3.      Rezoning applications;
        4.      Vacation of City property;
        5.      Surplus of City property;
        6.      Annexations.
  These actions are public hearings so that citizens may provide input on the decisions to be made.
  Public Hearings have very specific noticing requirements.
  City process includes:
       1.       Applications taken by Community and Economic Development Department;
       2.       Staff meetings to determine feasibility, infrastructure, transportation impacts, surrounding
                land use, etc.;
       3.       Staff recommendation;
       4.       Planning Commission hearing;
       5.       Possibility of City advisory board review;
       6.       City Council Committee of the Whole meeting discussion;
       7.       City Council Meeting public hearing and consideration.
These are very challenging issues not to be taken lightly. Most often the Council is making decisions affecting a
landowner’s private property interests and balancing that with what is in the best interests of the City. Be
conscience of public clamor and ex parte communication.                                                              Commented [JK12]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                     "Land Use" section of the new Policies and Procedures.




                                                                                                                12
                                                                V       Murray City Council Processes




G. Requests for Information—Council Members or Council committees may request information from the
   Mayor.
  The Mayor is required to inform the Council regarding financial and operational conditions of the City. A
  Mayor’s report to the Council is customarily given at the end of each Council meeting. Additionally, the
  Mayor sends a weekly “Council Communication” updating the Council on City matters.
  The City Attorney and Finance Director serve both the Council and the Mayor. Requests from these depart-
  ments do not need to go through the Mayor. Requests to other department directors or staff members are
  inappropriate and considered a violation of separation of powers.                                                Commented [JK13]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                   "Governance" section of the new Policies and Procedures.




                                                                                                              13
                                                                                            VI.      Meetings



A. State Municipal Code does have some mandatory rules for meeting procedure that must be complied
   with.
        1. All councils are required to adopt some rules of procedure.

        2. Cities and towns must pass an ordinance prescribing City Council meetings. A regular Council
        Meeting must be held at least once a month.
        3. The annual meeting schedule shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation detailing the
        date, time, and location of regular meetings. In general Murray Council meetings are on the first and
        third Tuesdays of the month.
        4. All meetings of the Legislative body in any municipality are required to follow the Open and Public
        Meeting Act, which does specify limited reasons for closing a meeting. (See Appendix)
        5. The minimum public notice for a Council meeting is 24 hours with the agenda, time, and place de
        tailed. There is a provision for emergency meetings.
        6. The Murray City Council shall conduct its meeting according to the most current edition of Robert’s
        Rules of Order.
B. Meeting Decorum—Decorum is a high priority for all government processes and meetings. Maintaining
   respect for all involved in the process is paramount. When someone is addressing the Council or Council
   Members are discussing a matter, they have the floor and are entitled to be fully heard. Hissing, applause,
   loud sighing, shaking ones’ head in agreement or disagreement, talking to others or distracting any partici-
   pant is a discourtesy to the process. In the spirit of impartiality, due process, safety, and the preservation
   of decorum, citizens and Council Members alike should never show an outward response to debate, com-
   ments or presentations during Council meetings. It is the responsibility of the conducting officer to safe-
   guard the decorum of Council meetings.
C. Quorum—The number of Council Members that must be present to legally transact business. A quorum is
   three (3) Council Members physically present.
D. Request for Council Action
    1. A Council Action Log is kept with future council topics scheduled by meeting. The Council Chair and
    Executive Director meet weekly with the administration to review and approve the Council Action Log.
    2. A Council Action Request form is submitted to council staff prior to the preliminary agenda prepara-
    tion. The form with supporting documentation is processed in the Council office and placed on a Council
    Meeting agenda for consideration.
    3. Land use matters follow a slightly different process with packets coming to Council staff directly from
    Community and Economic Development following Planning Commission review.                                          Commented [JK14]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                      "Meetings" section of the new Policies and Procedures.




                                                                                                                 14
                                                                                            VI.     Meetings



E.   Agenda Process—Agendas are prepared by council staff and approved by the Council Chair.

     1. Business items are scheduled for Committee of the Whole discussion prior to Council considera-
        tion in a Council Meeting. Committee of the Whole is an educational forum.
     2. Preliminary agenda and supporting documents are distributed to Council Members approximately
        eleven (11) days prior to the meeting.
     3. Council Members may request more information or ask to postpone a business item until their
        request is satisfied.
     4. The final agenda will be noticed according to Open and Public Meeting Act requirements, and final
        documents will be distributed to Council Members the Friday prior to a Tuesday meeting.
     5. Council Members may not act on any topic that was not previously noticed on the Council
        Meeting agenda.
     6. Order of business is detailed in the Council Rules.
     7. The presiding officer at Council Meetings shall be rotated monthly among Council Members
        according to district.
F.   Electronic Participation—Council Members may participate in Council Meetings by electronic commu-
     nication. A quorum of three (3) Council Members must be physically present in the noticed meeting
     place. The electronic participation must be audible to the public. Electronic meetings must be properly
     noticed.
G. Voting—To approve or change an ordinance or resolution, or take action on any item, three
   (a majority) or more Council Members must vote together. State law requires a roll call vote to be tak-
   en and recorded for all ordinances, resolutions or any other action. Roll call will be taken by aye (yes)
   or nay (no) vote. Council consideration may include:
     1. Approve an action with a positive majority vote;
     2. Deny an action item with a negative vote;
     3. Take no action with no motion or second;
     4. Continue an item to a future specified date with a majority vote, which may affect the validity
        of the current legal notice;
     5. Refer an item to a Committee of the Whole, workshop, Council committee, convene an ad hoc
        committee, or refer to Council or Mayor Staff for more information. It is typical to designate a
        “report back to the Council” date.

H. Abstaining– If a Council Member chooses to abstain from a vote, it has the same effect as voting
   against the motion.
I.   Reconsideration—A Council Member may move to reconsider a vote of the Council at one of the fol-
     lowing two Council meetings, but only if that Council member voted with the prevailing side at the
     time of the vote.                                                                                              Commented [JK15]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                    "Meetings" section of the new Policies and Procedures.
                                                                                                               15
                                                                                              VI.   Meetings



J.   Mayoral Veto —The Mayor may veto ordinances, tax levies and appropriations, subject to City Council
     veto override as provided by state law. If the Mayor vetoes a Council action, reasoning in writing must
     be explained to the Council within fifteen (15) days.
     The Council may reconsider a Mayor’s veto at the next meeting following such veto. The Council may
     override the Mayor’s veto by a two-thirds majority of all Council Members (4) in favor of the ordinance,
     tax levy or appropriation for it to take effect.
K. Absences—Any Council Member absent for more than six meetings and not excused by a majority of
   the other Council Members shall forfeit whatever leadership position that Council Member holds. Any
   Council Member exceeding these guidelines may appeal the matter to the Council and the Council may
   excuse any of the absences and waive the penalty.

L. Minutes—Public meetings are recorded. Written minutes are extrapolated from the digital audio re-
   cording of the meeting. Both the written and audio records are available to the public upon request.

     Council minutes are a written record of the proceedings during the actual Council meeting. They reflect
     the substance of what actually occurred in the Council meeting. Council Members are required to ap-
     prove the minutes. Corrections, deletions, or additions to factual information, quoted statements,
     meeting events, and official Council actions should be made prior to approval of the minutes.

     Editorial corrections may be submitted to the Council staff prior to a public meeting.                          Commented [JK16]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                     "Meetings" section of the new Policies and Procedures.




                                                                                                                16
                                                                                        VII.   Committees



Committees—The City Council Members participate in a number of committees.
A. Committee of the Whole—The entire membership of the Legislative body sitting as a committee.
     1. Less formal venue typically used as an educational forum.
     2. Questions of the presenter are encouraged.
     3. Direction may be requested of the Council.
     4. Presentations are first heard in a Committee of the Whole before consideration in a Council
        Meeting.
     5. Council committee service is often decided in a Committee of the Whole meeting.
B. Budget and Finance Committee—Made up of the entire membership of the City Council.
     1. Convenes to review the annual budget appropriations and revenue for the City.
     2. May convene for other budgetary reports and explanations.
C. Capital Improvement Program (CIP) Committee—The Capital Improvement Program identifies and pri-
   oritizes capital projects, equipment purchases, maintenance, and provides a planning schedule which
   also identifies financing options for infrastructure and assets.
     1.   Adopted as part of the annual budget process.
     2. Committee meets in the spring to review requests and prioritize capital projects.
     3. Two Council Members are assigned annually to a five member CIP committee. The Mayor, the
        Mayor’s Chief of Staff, and the Finance Director make up the other members of the CIP committee.
D. Other Committees—May be formed as necessary by majority vote of the Council. Membership, respon-
   sibilities and goals shall be assigned when committee is formed.
E. Municipal Building Authority—Made up entirely of Council Members. Annual meeting is usually held in
   November each year to elect officers for the ensuing year. Other meetings may be called as necessary.
F. Redevelopment Agency (RDA) - Council Members serve as the Board of the Redevelopment Agency.
   The Mayor is the Executive Director of the RDA and may delegate responsibilities. Meets monthly on
   the third Tuesday.
G. Board of Canvassers— The Mayor and legislative body are the Board of Canvassers for the municipality.
   The canvassing of returns from a municipal election shall be done no sooner than seven (7) days and no
   later than fourteen (14) days. Simple majority constitutes a quorum.
H. Murray City School Coordinating Council—Members of the CSCC consist of the Murray School Board
   and Murray City Council. The purpose is sharing of information. This Council meets three times a year.
I.   Outside Committees—Council will determine membership in outside committees at the first Committee
     of the Whole meeting of the year. These committees include, Association of Municipal Councils, Capital
     Improvement Program, New City Hall Committee, ULCT Legislative Policy Committee, Chamber of
     Commerce Board, and Business Enhancement Committee.                                                           Commented [JK17]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                   "Committees" section of the new Policies and Procedures.

                                                                                                              17
                                                                                               VII.   Committees



Interlocal Boards with Murray Representation– These appointments are made by the Mayor with Advice and Con-
sent by the City Council, with exception of the last three listed below.

A. Utah Association of Municipal Power Systems (UAMPS)
B.   Intermountain Power Agency (IPA)
C.   Trans Jordan Cities
D. Utah Telecommunications Open Infrastructure Agency (UTOPIA)
E.   Utah Infrastructure Agency (UIA)
F.   Community Action Program (CAP)
G. Jordan River Commission
H. Valley Emergency Communications Center (VECC)
I.   Metro Fire
J.   Central Valley Water Reclamation
K.   Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District
L.   NeighborWorks
M. Council of Governments (Mayor)
N. Association of Municipal Councils (Council Member)
O. Chamber of Commerce Board (Council Member)
P.   Utah League of Cities and Towns Legislative Policy Committee (Mayor and Council Member)


Murray City Advisory Boards– These boards and commissions are established by City ordinance. Appointments are
made by the Mayor with Advice and Consent by the City Council.

A. Arts Advisory Board
B.   Building Code Board of Appeals
C.   Ethics Commission
D. Hearing Officers (Land Use Appeals)
E.   History Advisory Board
F.   Murray Library Board of Directors
G. Murray City Center District Design Review Committee
H. Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
I.   Personnel Advisory Board
J.   Planning Commission
K.   Senior Recreation Center Advisory Board
L.   Shade Tree Commission


South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement District—A Murray City representative to the Board of Trustees must be
appointed by the City Council for a four (4) year term. The last appointment was made in January of 2018.               Commented [JK18]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                        "Committees" section of the new Policies and Procedures.
                                                                                                                   18
                                                                               VIII.    Council Leadership




Council Leadership—At the first Council meeting of each year, the Council elects leadership positions for
the calendar year as an action item on the Council Meeting agenda. Nominations will be taken by the
Council Member conducting. Once nominations are concluded for each office, voting will be by roll call or
ballot. Elections take effect immediately after the vote is finalized.
A. Council Chair—Council Members may not serve more than two consecutive calendar years as Chair.
    1. Presides at all Council meetings, except upon delegating or sharing limited conducting responsibili-
       ties with the other four Council Members. The presiding officer at Council Meetings shall be rotat-
       ed monthly among Council Members according to district.
    2. Moves Council Initiatives and projects forward to completion.
    3. Sets Council meeting agendas.
    4. Signs all ordinances, resolutions and other official documents on behalf of the Council.
    5. Communicates official position statements that have been approved by the Council and is spokes-
        person to the media, public, official publications.
    6. Liaison to the Mayor on Council’s behalf.
    7. Disseminates information from the Mayor.
    8. Conducts Committee of the Whole and Workshop meetings.
    9. Supervises Council staff as detailed in the Council Rules.

B. Council Vice-Chair—Elected for one calendar year.

    1. Presiding Officer in the temporary absence of the Chair.

    2. In the event the Chair is incapacitated due to illness or otherwise unable to attend Council
       meetings, Vice- Chair shall sign ordinances, resolutions and other official correspondence.

C. Budget and Finance Committee Chair—Council Members may not serve more than two consecutive
   calendar years as Budget and Finance Committee Chair.
    1. Presiding officer of the Budget and Finance Committee meetings.

    2. Approves the agenda for Budget and Finance Committee meetings.
    3. Coordinates the review and recommendations for annual budget meetings, and financial reports.
    4. May serve on the Capital Improvement Program Committee.
    5. Serves on the Audit Committee.
    6. Other responsibilities relating to budget and finance.
D. Budget and Finance Vice-Chair—Serves in the absence of the Budget and Finance Committee Chair.                  Commented [JK19]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                   "Council Leadership" section of the new Policies and
                                                                                                                   Procedures.



                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                   IX.      Ethics




Municipal Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act—The Ethics’ Act is found in Utah Code 10-3-1301 and
Murray City Municipal Code Chapter 2.46 and 2.47 and applies to all elected and appointed officers and
employees of a city.
A. The law makes it a crime to:

    1. Improperly use private, controlled, or protected information;
    2. Use a person’s official position to further personal economic interest or privileges;
    3. Receive a gift of substantial value, although, an occasional gift having a value of $50 or less is
       allowed;
    4. Receive compensation for assisting any person or entity in any transaction with the City.
B. Disclosure of Conflict of Interest:
    1. Written—A written disclosure statement is required to be filed upon first getting elected, whenev-
       er there is a change in the nature of conflict, and at the beginning of each year of service.
    2. Oral—An oral disclosure must be made in an open meeting to the members of the body of which
       one is a member immediately before the discussion about the topic involved in the conflict of in-
       terest.
C. Ethics Commission Murray City Municipal Code Chapter 2.47;
    1. The purpose of the commission is to review, hold hearings, deliberate and make official findings
       and recommendations regarding complaints against City officers and employees for alleged
       violations of ethics standards.
    2. The ethics commission consists of five (5) members who must have been City residents for at
       least three (3) years. Members of the commission are appointed by the Mayor with Advice and
       Consent of the City Council.                                                                                  Commented [JK20]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                     "Ethics" section of the new Policies and Procedures.




                                                                                                                20
                                                                                          X.       Council Staff




The Council office staff consists of a Council Executive Director, Council Office Administrator III, and other
staff hired or contracted as the Council may deem necessary. Hiring procedures are detailed in the Rules
of the Murray City Municipal Council. The Council Executive Director is supervised by the Council Chair.
A. Duties of the Council Executive Director include, but are not limited to:

    1. Serves as a liaison to the administration;
    2. Meets all requirements of the Open and Public Meeting Act;
    3. Coordinates activities related to agenda requests;
    4. Coordinates agenda preparation and analysis;
    5. Conducts research as requested by Council members;
    6. Helps coordinate and provide policy analysis;
    7. Coordinates Council activities associated with City budget analysis, review, and adoption;
    8. Submits a proposed budget for Council office operations;
    9. Prepares the statement of Council Intent to accompany the annual City Budget;
    10. Coordinates Council activities for budget tracking throughout the year;
    11. Organizes activities related to Council initiatives, administrative reviews, department auditing and
        other such duties correlated with the Council carrying out its responsibilities;
    12. Manages Council responsibilities for coordination of the annual independent financial audit;
    13. Coordinates and attends Council meetings, committee meetings, citizen meetings and other
        similar meetings as caused by Council members;
    14. Coordinates training activities for new Council Members;
    15. Attends Utah League of Cities and Towns Legislative Policy Committee meetings and reports to
        Council;
    16. Follows pertinent State legislation and reports to Council;
    17. Supervises Council Office Administrator III and other Council staff;
    18. Interface with citizens as necessary.
 B. Duties of the Council Office Administrator III:

    1. Attend meetings of the Council and manage minute preparation and approval;
    2. Oversee Council office bookkeeping;
    3. Coordinate meetings and special events;
    4. Organize travel arrangements;
    5. Interface with the public.                                                                                     Commented [JK21]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                      "City Council Office" section of the new Policies and
                                                                                                                      Procedures.




                                                                                                                 21
                                                                                 XI.     Internal Provisions




A. Council Salary— Council Salary is set by City ordinance. The Council has the authority to revise Council
   salary, however, it may be revised by public hearing process only. Council members are paid biweekly
   along with the entire City payroll. If the Council approves a cost of living adjustment for City employ-
   ees during the adoption of the annual budget, City Council Members also receive the COLA.
   1.   Telephone Allowance—A cell phone allowance is paid to each Council Member for use in
        conducting City business during their term of office.
   2. Expense Allowance—Council Members are provided with a monthly expense allowance to defer
      the costs of conducting City business during their term of office, i.e., citizen meetings, meals, park-
      ing, and mileage within a 50 mile radius of the City.
   3. Council Members are eligible for City health care, retirement and investment benefits.

B. City Council Travel—There are several conferences and events that provide excellent education, train-
   ing, and professional development for elected officials. Travel is addressed under a separate Council
   Travel Policy.
C. Public Relations Checking Account—A public relations account has been established and is funded
   solely by payroll deduction from Council Member pay checks. The deduction amount shall be decided
   or amended by a vote of the City Council. Council staff may assist in transactions and report the status
   of the account to Council Members periodically.
    1. Purpose—The account is to provide a mechanism for the Council as a whole to purchase and
       deliver remembrances or acknowledgements. The events listed below shall be considered first
       priority use for the account funds; all secondary uses and donations not listed shall be approved
       by the Council.
        •       Death or serious illness of an employee or employee’s immediate family;
        •       Retirement of 25 year + employee.
C. Electronics—City Council Members will be provided an iPad for use in conducting City business.
D. Email—City Council Members will have a Murray City email address. A City Council calendar is provid-
   ed with the email system. Council staff keeps the calendar current with meetings and events.

E. The City Code is available on the City website: www.murray.utah.gov If you prefer a hard copy of
   the City Code, that can be provided to you and updates will be received periodically.
F. Murray City Employees Association (MCEA) - City Council Members may elect to join the MCEA with
   payroll deduction.                                                                                                Commented [JK22]: This section can be found in the
                                                                                                                     "City Council Office" section of the new Policies and
                                                                                                                     Procedures.




                                                                                                                22
                                                                                          References




Information for this Handbook has been summarized or quoted from the following sources.

1. Utah Code Unannotated, 2019
2. City Code of Murray City, Utah

3.   Utah League of Cities and Towns Powers and Duties , Eighteenth Edition, 2017




                                                                                                  23
                                                        Appendix




                          Appendix
#1 Open and Public Meeting Act
#2 Murray City Code Chapter 2.48 Redevelopment Agency




                                                               24
The Open and Public Meetings Act (OPMA) requires that members of a public body be "provided with annual
training on the requirements of [the Open and Public Meetings Act]" (Section 52-4-104). This document is
intended to facilitate compliance with that requirement and to help legislators understand OPMA. This
summary is intended for a state legislative audience and does not attempt to explain or address requirements
for other public bodies. Key terms are defined at the end of the document.


OPMA's stated goal is to ensure that the state, its
agencies, and its political subdivisions deliberate        2019 Amendments to OPMA
and take action openly (Section 52-4-102).
                                                             •    2019 S.B. 27 authorizes a governmental
Public Notice                                                     nonprofit corporation to close a meeting to
(Section 52-4-202)                                                discuss trade secrets under certain
A public body is required to provide public notice of a           circumstances.
meeting at least 24 hours before the meeting. The            •    2019 S.B. 72 provides clarification regarding
public notice is required to:                                     the application of OPMA to and a quorum of
  • specify the date, time, and place of the meeting;             a large public transit district.
  • include an agenda that specifies the topics the          •    2019 S.B. 165 amends the definition of
     public body will consider;
                                                                  "quorum" so that a quorum is not present
  • be posted on the Utah Public Notice Website
     and at the location of the meeting; and                      when two elected members of a three­
  • be provided to a newspaper or local media                     member public body meet if they take no
     correspondent.                                               action, regardless of whether the action
A public body may discuss an item raised by the                   relates to a subject over which the public
public that is not listed on the agenda but may not               body has advisory power.
take final action on the item at the meeting.

Minutes and Recordings                                     Closed Meetings
                                                            (Sections 52-4-204 and 52-4-205)
(Section 52-4-203)
                                                            A public body may hold a closed meeting only for
  • A public body is required to keep written minutes
                                                            certain purposes, including to discuss:
    and a recording of all meetings unless the
    meeting is a site visit or traveling tour where no        • a person's character, competence, or health;
    vote or action is taken.                                  • pending or imminent litigation;
  • A recording of the open portions of the meeting           • certain matters regarding acquisition or sale of
    must be posted on the Utah Public Notice                     real property, including water rights or shares;
    Website within three business days after the              • the deployment of security personnel, devices,
    public meeting.                                              or systems;
  • Draft minutes are required to be made available           • an investigation of alleged criminal conduct;
    to the public within 30 days after the meeting.           • the receipt or review of an ethics complaint, if
  • The approved minutes and any public materials                the public body is the Independent Legislative
    distributed at the meeting must, within three                Ethics Commission;
    business days after their approval, be:
                                                              • certain matters under the jurisdiction of a
    • posted on the Utah Public Notice Website; and
                                                                 legislative ethics committee; and
    • made available at the public body's office.
                                                              • certain deliberations and decision making
                                                                 involved in the procurement process.




                                                                 OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE RESEARCH AND GENERAL COUNSEL
A public body may close a meeting only by a two­          circumstances arise that require the public body to
thirds vote with a quorum present, except that a          consider matters of an emergency or urgent nature.
majority vote is sufficient for closing a meeting of:     However, a public body may not hold an emergency
 • the Health and Human Services Interim                  meeting unless it attempts to notify all members of
     Committee to review a fatality review report;        the public body and a majority of its members
 • the Child Welfare Legislative Oversight Panel to       approve the meeting.
     review a fatality review report or review and
     discuss an individual case; or                       Electronic Meetings
 • an ethics committee of the Legislature to              (Sections 52-4-207 and JR?-1-407)
     receive legal advice or deliberate on a              A public body may not convene or conduct a meeting
     complaint.                                           by electronic communications unless it has adopted
No vote is required to close a meeting of the             procedures to govern electronic meetings. The
Independent Legislative Ethics Commission to review       Legislature's rule governing electronic legislative
an ethics complaint if the publicly distributed agenda    meetings states that a committee member may
for the meeting states that the meeting will be           remotely participate in a public meeting if:
closed.                                                     • the member will be more than 50 miles away
                                                                from the meeting location;
A public body that closes a meeting is required to
                                                            • at least three days before the meeting, the
announce and record in the minutes the reasons for
                                                                member requests permission of the chair to
closing the meeting.
                                                                participate from a remote location; and
A public body may not close a meeting to discuss            • the chair obtains permission from the speaker
filling a midterm vacancy or temporary absence for              of the House of Representatives and president
an elected position, or to discuss a person whose               of the Senate to conduct an electronic meeting.
name was submitted to fill a midterm vacancy or
temporary absence for an elected position.                Penalties
                                                          (Sections 52-4-302 and 52-4-305)
An ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, contract,
or appointment may not be approved during the             Open Meetings -Any final action taken in a meeting
closed portion of a meeting.                              that is in violation of certain open-meeting provisions
                                                          of OPMA is voidable by a court.
Emergency Meetings                                        Closed Meetings - It is a class B misdemeanor to
(Section 52-4-202!                                        knowingly or intentionally violate the closed meeting
A public body may hold an emergency meeting and is        provisions of OPMA.
not required to give 24-hour notice if unforeseen


Definitions (Section 52 4-103;
Meeting means a convening of a public body with a        Publlc Body means an administrative, advisory,
quorum present to discuss, receive public comment        executive, or legislative body of the state or its
about, or act upon a matter over which the public        political subdivisions that:
body has jurisdiction or advisory power.                   • is created by the Utah constitution, state statute,
Meeting does not mean a chance or social gathering             rule, ordinance, or resolution;
or a convening of a public body that has both              • expends, disburses, or is supported in whole or in
legislative and executive responsibilities in certain          part by tax revenue; and
circumstances.                                             • is vested with the authority to make decisions
                                                               regarding the public's business.
                                                           Public body does not include a political party,
                                                           political group, or political caucus, or a conference
                                                           committee, rules committee, or sifting committee of
                                                           the Legislature.
  Appendix 2

                     Chapter 2.48
        REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF MURRAY CITY 0
  2.48.010: DESIGNATED: ROLE AND MISSION:
  2.48.020: RULES: APPROVAL:
  2.48.030: POWERS:

  2.48.010: DESIGNATED; ROLE AND MISSION:                                  0


  The City Council is designated as the board of the Redevelopment Agency (Agency), sometimes
  referred to as the Community Development and Renewal Agency, of the City pursuant to the
  provisions of Title 17C of the Utah Code, the Limited Purpose Local Government Entities -
  Community Reinvestment Agency Act. The Mayor, or the Mayor's designee, shall serve as the
  executive director of the Agency and shall exercise the executive powers of the Agency. (Ord. 16-
  17)

  2.48.020: RULES; APPROVAL: 0
  The rules governing participation and preference by owners, operators of businesses and tenants of
  the Agency for a redevelopment or economic development project area adopted by the Agency on
  April 12, 1999, as amended, be and the same are hereby approved. (Ord. 16-17)

  2.48.030: POWERS:                  0
  A The Agency may:

1. Enter into contracts generally.

2. Buy; obtain an option upon; otherwise acquire any interest in; sell; convey; grant; dispose of by gift;
   otherwise dispose of any interest in; or enter into a lease agreement on, either as lessee or lessor,
   real or personal property.

3. If disposing of or leasing land, retain, control or establish restrictions and covenants running with the
   land consistent with the applicable project area plan.

4. Provide for urban renewal, economic development, and community development.

5. Receive tax increment as provided in Title 17C of the Utah Code.

6. Accept financial or other assistance from any public or private source for the Agency's activities,
   powers and duties and may extend any funds so received for any of the purposes of such act.

7. Borrow money or accept financial or other assistance from the state or the federal government for
   any redevelopment project within its area of operation and shall comply with any conditions of such
   loan or grant.
Sterling Codifiers, Inc.                                                              Page 2 of 2


     7. Borrow money or accept financial or other assistance from the state or the federal
       government for any redevelopment project within its area of operation and shall comply
       with any conditions of such loan or grant.

     8. Issue bonds to finance the undertaking of any urban renewal, economic development,
        or community development or for any of the Agency's other purposes, including:

       a. Reimbursing an advance made by the Agency, or by the City Council or federal
          government to the Agency;

       b. Refunding bonds to pay or retire bonds previously issued by the Agency; and

       c. Refunding bonds to pay or retire bonds previously issued by the City for expenses
          associated with an urban renewal, economic development, or community
          development project.

     9. Sue and be sued.

     10. Transact other business and exercise all other powers provided for in Title 1?C of the
       Utah Code.


 B. The Agency may not adopt a resolution, pass a motion, or take any other official action
    without the concurrence of at least a majority of the board members present at a meeting
    at which a quorum is present. A majority of board members constitutes a quorum for the
    transaction of Agency business. (Ord. 16-17)




https://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/printnow.php                               11/18/2019
Adjournment
