Council Meeting
August 22, 2023
                          Murray City Municipal Council
                           City Council Meeting Notice
                                        August 22, 2023



PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Murray City Municipal Council will hold a City Council meeting
beginning at 6:30 p.m. on Tuesday, August 22, 2023 in the Murray City Council Chambers located at Murray
City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Murray, UT.

The public may view the Council Meeting via the live stream at www.murraycitylive.com or
https://www.facebook.com/Murraycityutah/. Those wishing to have their comments read into the record
may send an email by 5:00 p.m. the day prior to the meeting date to city.council@murray.utah.gov.
Comments are limited to less than three minutes (approximately 300 words for emails) and must include
your name and address.

Meeting Agenda

6:30 p.m.       Council Meeting – Council Chambers
                Diane Turner conducting.

Opening Ceremonies
       Call to Order
       Pledge of Allegiance

Approval of Minutes
      Council Meeting – July 18, 2023
      Council Meeting – August 1, 2023
      Special Council Meeting – August 8, 2023

Special Recognition
        None scheduled.

Citizen Comments
        Comments will be limited to three minutes, step to the microphone, state your name and city of
        residence, and fill out the required form.

Consent Agenda
       None scheduled.

Public Hearings
        Staff, sponsor presentations and public comment will be given prior to Council action on the
        following matters.

    1. Consider an ordinance adopting the rate of tax levies for the Fiscal Year commencing July 1,
       2023, and ending June 30, 2024. Brenda Moore presenting.
    2. Consider an ordinance adopting the final 2023-2024 Fiscal Year Budgets for Murray City
       including the Library Fund Budget. Brenda Moore presenting.
Murray City Council Agenda
August 22, 2023                                                                                                                2

Business Items
       None scheduled.

Mayor’s Report and Questions

Adjournment


NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City Recorder
(801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the other
Council Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers will be able to hear all discussions.

On Friday, August 18, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Murray City Center, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City Recorder. A
copy of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing website at
http://pmn.utah.gov .




                                                                     Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                     Council Executive Director
                                                                     Murray City Municipal Council
   Call to Order
Pledge of Allegiance
Council Meeting
   Minutes
OPENING CEREMONIES
 Council in Attendance:




                                                    T
 (Vacant), District #1
 Pamela Cotter, District #2
 Rosalba Dominguez, District #3
 Diane Turner, District #4
                                   AF
 Garry Hrechkosy, District #5 (Excused)
 Jennifer Kennedy, Council Director
 Pattie Johnson, Council Office Administrator III
 Crystal Brown, Officer Administrator

 Administrative Staff in Attendance:
                          R

 Brett A. Hales, Mayor
 Doug Hill, Chief Administrative Office
 Tammy Kikuchi, Chief Communication Officer
 G.L. Critchfield, City Attorney
              D


 Brooke Smith, City Recorder
 Laura Bown, Purchasing Agent
 Calvin Atchley, Records Officer
 Wendy Saunders, Passport Agent
 Brenda Moore, Finance and Administration Director
 Craig Burnett, Police Chief
 Joey Mittelman, Fire Chief
 Stephen Olsen, Battalion Chief
 Greg Bellon, Interim General Manager of Power
 Russ Kakala, Public Works Director
 Philip Markham, Community and Economic Development Director*
 Kim Sorensen, Parks and Recreation Director
 Kim Fong, Library Director
 Robert White, IT Service Director
 Ben Gray, Sr. Network Administrator

 Others in Attendance:
 Ryan Smith, Tonya Hodges, Paul Pickett, Clark Bullen, David Rodgers, Chad West, Katie Butterfield,
 Heather Taylor, Ben Butterfield, Jane Willie, Ronyold Willie, Wendy Parsons Baker, Lindsey Smith, Dede
 Smith, Leann Parker-Reed, Pam Sanders, Valerie Farley, Marie Gunn, Penelope Gunn, Charles Turner, Alan
 DeMann, Wini DeMann, Adam Hock, Michael Todd, Loran Paselich, Jim Brass, Jennifer Brass, Jason Lynn,
 Jenn Lynn.
 Opening Ceremonies

 Call to Order – Councilmember Dominguez called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. District 5
 Councilmember Hrechkosy was excused from the meeting. District 1 seat formally chaired by
 Councilmember Markham was vacant due to a resignation. Mr. Markham was attending in the audience.

 The audience was invited to recite the Pledge of Allegiance led by Penelope Gunn.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
None scheduled.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
 1. Report from outgoing Miss Murray, Emma Robison, Emma Robinson presenting
       PRESENTATION

       The outgoing Miss Murray, Emma Robison, gave a brief presentation that included a video
       highlighting special events during her reign. She expressed gratitude for the opportunity to
       serve as Miss Murray 2023 and be part of the Miss Murray organization for the past 10 years.
       She spoke about the influence of previous Miss Murray titleholders and her experiences
       connecting with young girls as a role model. As her reign concludes, she reflected on the
       memorable moments and people she met, including senior citizens, firefighters, children, and
       others at various community events. She treasured the relationships formed and the chance to



                                                     T
       work with city leaders to serve the Murray community. She thanked the city council for the
       opportunity to represent and serve Murray as Miss Murray 2023.
                                  AF
       Councilmembers and the Mayor thanked Emma Robison for her example and congratulated
       her on her recent engagement.

 2. Special recognition of Chad West, Mayor Hales presenting.
       PRESENTATION
                        R

       Mayor Hales presented a special recognition to Chad West for his actions in helping apprehend
       a reckless driver. Chad called 911 and pursued two women from a crashed vehicle until police
       arrived and made arrests. On behalf of the city council and administration, Mayor Hales
       thanked Chad for his actions and presented him with a recognition coin. Former Senator
             D


       Howell was also in attendance for the recognition. Chad explained that he had a longstanding
       relationship with former Senator Scott Howell's family, and they were in attendance to support
       him.

       Chad West thanked the Mayor and council for the special recognition.

       Councilmembers thanked Chad West for his service, and former Senator Howell for being in
       attendance.

 3. Murray City Employee of the Month, Brooke Smith, City Recorder, Rosalba Dominguez and Mayor
    Hales presenting.
       PRESENTATION

       Councilmember Dominguez introduced Brooke Smith, as the July recipient for Employee of the
       Month. Brooke Smith is the City Recorder for Murray. She received a certificate; a $50 gift card;
       and her name will appear on the plaque located in the Council Chambers.

       Councilmember Dominguez, Mayor Hales, and Finance and Administrative, Director Brenda
       Moore presented the Murray City Employee of the Month award to Brooke Smith. Brooke was
       recognized for her work coordinating the city's move to the new city hall. This included
       developing a process to identify surplus items and items to move, contracting with a moving
       company, and keeping employees informed during the move. Her process secured three
       competitive bids and saved the city approximately $20,000. Mayor Hales added that Brooke
       sent many emails to coordinate the smooth move and likely saved the city frustration and
       money.

       The council and mayor thanked Brooke for her work and presented her with the employee of
       the month award, flowers from her staff, and a $50 gift certificate.

       Brooke Smith acknowledged that the move was a team effort, and she appreciated the support
       and coordination of the entire staff. She expressed her excitement about the new City Hall,
       especially since it was the first Request for Proposal (RFP) she published in her five years of
       working there. Brooke praised the excellent work of the Legit company who they contracted
       with and recommended them to others.

       Brooke took the opportunity to express her gratitude to her colleagues, mentioning Laura Bown
       (Purchasing Agent), Calvin Atchley (Records Officer), Wendy Saunders (Passport Agent), her
       husband Ryan, and several others who supported her during the stressful time of the move.
       She thanked the council and her fellow staff members, especially Brenda Moore and Doug Hill,
       for their help and support throughout the process.

       Councilmembers thanked Brooke Smith for her service.

CITIZEN COMMENT(S)




                                                       T
Comments will be limited to three minutes, step to the microphone, state your name and city of residence,
and fill out the required form.
 The meeting was open for public comment.
                                    AF
 Charlotte Brimhall

 Charlotte Brimhall, a Sandy City resident representing the Nomad Alliance, requested Murray City consider
 a pilot sanctioned campground for the homeless population. She noted Salt Lake City allocated $500,000
 for a campground, but the mayor requires participation from another city. Given the increasing homeless
 population and affordable housing crisis, and deaths of homeless individuals, they aim to establish a
                         R

 sanctioned campground before winter. The homeless currently suffer from routine abatements that
 displace them and derail progress toward stable housing. The Nomad Alliance modeled their sanctioned
 campground concept after Denver's successful approach. The campground would provide temporary
 shelter to help transition people into more permanent housing. Charlotte Brimhall asked the city council to
                D


 consider participating in a pilot program and offered to provide more details on their sanctioned
 campground model. She thanked the council for considering this pressing issue.

 Clark Bullen

 Clark Bowen, a resident of District 3, said he appreciated that the Committee of the Whole meetings are
 being streamed again from the new city hall. He suggested scheduling all city meetings after 5:30pm to
 allow more residents who work until 5:00pm to participate and view the meetings. He acknowledged it
 would push meetings later for city staff but believes it would demonstrate a commitment to community
 awareness and accessibility. He hopes the council will consider this change to make meetings more
 available to all Murray citizens. He thanked the council for their consideration.

 Reynold Willey

 Reynold Willie, a resident of Murray, expressed his appreciation for Murray City. He and his wife love living
 in Murray, citing it as a wonderful place with great recreation amenities that allow them to meet new
 friends. He thanked the city council for all they have done to make Murray an enjoyable city to live in.

 No additional citizen comments were given, and the open citizen comment period was closed.

CONSENT AGENDA
 1. Consider confirmation of the Mayor's appointment of Wini DeMann to the Library Board for a three-
    year term beginning July 2023 to expire June 2026, Mayor Hales presenting
       PRESENTATION

       Mayor Hales recommended Wini DeMann, a long-time Murray resident, as his appointment to
       the Library Board for a 3-year term from July 2023 to June 2026. He noted the DeMann family
       has deep roots in Murray. Mayor Hales met with Wini DeMann and believes she will be an
       excellent addition to the Library Board and asked the Council to confirm his appointment of
       Wini DeMann to fulfill the open 3-year term on the Library Board starting in July.

       MOTION

       Councilmember Cotter moved to approve the confirmation of the Mayor's appointment of Wini
       DeMann to the Library Board for a three-year term beginning July 2023 to expire June 2026.
       The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Turner.

       ROLL CALL

       Ayes: Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Dominguez, Councilmember Turner
       Excused: Councilmember Hrechkosy

       Motion passes 3-0

PUBLIC HEARING(S)


                                                      T
Staff, sponsor presentations, and public comments will be given prior to Council action on the following
matter. The Council Meeting Agenda Packet can be found HERE.
                                   AF
 1. Consider an ordinance amending Section 17.16.010 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to
    the appointment of hearing officers for land use appeals and variances, Susan Nixon presenting.

    Minutes Attachments
    1. Attachment CC 07.18.23 Hearing Officer terms.pdf
       PRESENTATION
                        R

       Susan Nixon from the Murray Planning Division shared a PowerPoint with the purpose of the
       proposed text amendments to section 17.16.010 regarding the city's land use hearing officers.
       The amendments would reduce the minimum required number of hearing officers from three to
              D


       two, and increase the maximum terms they can serve from three terms (9 years) to five terms
       (15 years).

       She provided background that hearing officers serve in a quasi-judicial role, hearing appeals of
       planning decisions and variance requests. Staff prefers to have Officers with land use, real
       estate, or legal backgrounds. The current two hearing officers, one a former planning
       commissioner and one an attorney, are excellent. The caseload analysis shows they average
       2–4 cases over 2–4 meetings per year, so it is not an overly demanding role.

       Murray has used hearing officers instead of a Board of Adjustments since 2014. The planning
       staff and Planning Commission reviewed the proposed changes and recommend the Council
       approve amending the code to allow more flexible terms and a minimum of two hearing
       officers. The findings are it better utilizes public volunteers, is consistent with the purpose of
       the code, and meets needs for qualified hearing officers.

       Susan concluded the planning staff and Commission recommend the Council approve the text
       amendments to Sections 17.16.010 A and D as proposed.

       CITIZEN COMMENTS

       The meeting was open for public comment.
     No citizen comments were given, and the open public comment period was closed.

     DISCUSSION

     Councilmember Cotter stated that Susan Nixon had already presented this proposal at the
     Committee of the Whole meeting and answered all of her questions at that time. She had no
     further questions since the information was thoroughly covered during the prior discussion at
     Committee of the Whole.

     MOTION

     Councilmember Turner moved to approve the ordinance amending Section 17.16.010 of the
     Murray City Municipal Code relating to the appointment of hearing officers for land use appeals
     and variances. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Cotter.

     ROLL CALL

     Ayes: Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Dominguez, Councilmember Turner
     Excused: Councilmember Hrechkosy

     Motion passes 3-0

2. Consider an ordinance amending Sections 15.20.150, 15.20.170, 15.20.180, 15.20.190, 15.20.200,




                                                    T
   15.20.210, 15.20.220, 15.20.230, and 15.20.240 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to power
   rate increases and changes to applicable electrical service schedules, Greg Bellon and Matt Youngs
   presenting
                                AF
     PRESENTATION

     Greg Bellon shared the purpose of the proposed ordinance to consider an ordinance amending
     Sections 15.20.150, 15.20.170, 15.20.180, 15.20.190, 15.20.200, 15.20.210, 15.20.220,
     15.20.230, and 15.20.240 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to power rate increases
     and changes to applicable electrical service schedules.
                      R

     Greg Bellon of the Murray City Power Department presented a proposal for phased power rate
     increases over the next 3 years to the City Council.

     Greg provided background that it has been 15 years since the last rate increase, which
            D


     occurred in May 2011 shortly after he started with the city. At that time, the rate increase was
     also phased in over 3 years. The Power Department has not implemented any rate increases
     since 2011 until now.

     Greg noted that while a long gap between rate increases is not ideal, the Power Department
     has been blessed with favorable energy costs and rates and did not require an increase until
     recently. Last winter was unprecedented in the power industry with extremely high costs that
     heavily drew down the Power Department's reserves. The reserves allowed them to absorb the
     high winter costs without passing them on to customers through immediate rate increases.

     However, with reserves now significantly depleted, and to rebuild reserves to newly established
     targets per the Power Reserve Policy adopted by the Council, rate increases are prudent and
     necessary.

     They are proposing Option 2 as recommended by the Council at last week's Committee of the
     Whole meeting. Option 2 phases in increases over 3 years as follows:

         Increases the customer charge from the current $3.35 to $7 in 2023, $8 in 2024, and $10 in
         2025.
         The $10 customer charge is in line with other utilities and helps cover fixed costs of
         providing power.
         Avoids increasing rates all at once, spreading the impact over time.
The Power Department believes Option 2 provides an excellent path to brings rates more in line
with underlying costs, while gradually rebuilding reserves per the Council's policy over the 3
year phase-in period.

Greg welcomed any additional questions on the details from the Council at this time. The
Power Department recommends and is in favor of moving forward with the phased increases
under Option 2.

DISCUSSION

Councilmember Dominguez asked if there were any visuals to show the public what the rate
increases would look like. Greg Bellon said they did not have any prepared but explained the
current rate is $3.35 per month. He outlined the proposed tiered rate structure changes each
year under Option 2 - increasing the customer charge to $7, $8, and $10 over 3 years, with
corresponding increases to the per kW charges. He noted these would put Murray in the middle
compared to other utilities.

Greg Bellon added that using Councilmember Cotter's actual usage data, her bill would
increase by just under $90 over the 3 years under Option 2, very minor compared to Option 1.

Councilmember Cotter clarified for citizens that the rate increases only apply to the power
portion at the top of utility bills, not water, sewer, garbage, etc.




                                              T
Greg Bellon noted they are also implementing an updated Power Cost Adjustment that will be
evaluated monthly and can adjust rates up or down based on underlying power costs. This will
help stabilize rates moving forward.
                           AF
Councilmember Turner acknowledged this is difficult but appreciates presenting a phased
Option 2 versus all at once. When the City raised taxes previously, citizens preferred
incremental changes.

Greg Bellon agreed it's not ideal but necessary given rising energy costs outside Murray's
control. He committed to controlling what they can without compromising service and
                 R

reliability.

Councilmember Dominguez confirmed even with the increases, Murray's rates would remain
competitive, not the highest in the state. She noted the hydro project coming online to generate
      D


power is part of managing costs. But Murray can't isolate itself from larger grid issues. She
thanked Greg for constructive leadership through this process to educate the Council.

Councilmember Cotter read a statement explaining she initially preferred Option 1 to address
the issue immediately but after more analysis supports Option 2. The incremental approach
over 3 years has less impact on ratepayers. She analyzed her own usage and the difference
was minor. The higher reserves under Option 2 align with the Council's reserve policy. She
noted the new Power Cost Adjustment will also help stabilize rates going forward. While
wishing rates didn't have to increase, the city is doing what's needed to maintain service and
healthy reserves. She thanked Greg for their patience and assistance navigating this complex
issue.

Greg Bellon clarified that a revenue neutral rate study in 2016 did not actually result in
increases. Rates were last increased in 2011. But the time has come to bring rates in line with
underlying costs. He reiterated they will continue working to control costs and appreciated the
Council's thoughtful and informed decision process.

Councilmember Dominguez concluded this was a difficult decision knowing the impact on
citizens, but inevitable given the power grid reality. She encouraged utilizing available bill
assistance resources for those struggling and having open conversations to understand the
issues. The increases are to sustain reliable service. She thanked Greg Bellon for his work.
CITIZEN COMMENTS

The meeting was open for public comment.

Clark Bullen

Clark Bullen from District 3 understands the need to raise rates and supports removing the cap
on the power supply cost adjustment. However, he notes the difficult timing given recent sewer
rate increases and impending property tax increases. He wishes the increases could be spread
over a longer 5-year period at 8% annually to soften the impact on citizens. He suggests
building in automatic increases going forward, so rates keep pace rather than large intermittent
spikes after long gaps without increases. He also recommends the city advertise the
assistance programs available for those struggling financially, so they know help is available
and don't feel desperate. Clark thanks the council for their thoughtful consideration of these
matters as they decide on power rate increases.

No additional citizen comments were given, and the public comment period was closed.

DISCUSSION

Councilmember Dominguez asked why the increases couldn't be spread over a longer 5-8 year
period as suggested by the citizen Clark Bullen.

Greg Bellon responded that to rebuild reserves to the needed levels, the increases need to



                                              T
happen sooner over 3 years rather than drawn out further. While easier on ratepayers, it
wouldn't get reserves replenished as quickly to ensure financial stability.
                           AF
Dominguez followed up by noting Murray had lost about $10 million in reserves just this past
year from October to May due to high power costs.

Councilmember Cotter asked Brenda Moore to discuss the utility bill assistance program
available for those struggling.

Brenda explained they refer customers having trouble paying bills to HEAT (Home Energy
                 R

Assistance Target) program daily. HEAT provides help year-round, not just for winter heat bills.
Murray matches HEAT benefits up to $10,000 in the city budget. They recently streamlined the
process, so documentation is not required upfront for the city match. More funds may be
needed if demand increases with the rate hikes.
      D


Cotter also asked if the Power Cost Adjustment could cover the difference until reserves are
rebuilt. Greg responded that it would not have the same impact as the rate increases to raise
the needed revenues.

Councilmember Dominguez added these issues with natural resource availability and costs are
not new and will likely persist. After learning more through conferences, she feels Murray has
taken proper steps to prepare compared to other cities that had to do major increases. She is
confident in the thorough process and commended the work of staff.

MOTION

Councilmember Cotter moved to approve the ordinance amending Sections 15.20.150,
15.20.170, 15.20.180, 15.20.190, 15.20.200, 15.20.210, 15.20.220, 15.20.230, and 15.20.240 of
the Murray City Municipal Code relating to power rate increases and changes to applicable
electrical service schedules. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Turner.

ROLL CALL

Ayes: Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Dominguez, Councilmember Turner
Excused: Councilmember Hrechkosy
      Motion passes 3-0

BUSINESS ITEM(S)
 1. Consider a resolution providing advice and consent to the Mayor's appointment of Philip J.
    Markham as the City's Community and Economic Development Department Director., Mayor Hales
    presenting.

   If approved, the swearing-in ceremony will be conducted by Brooke Smith, City Recorder.
      PRESENTATION

      Mayor Hales brought forward his appointment of Philip J. Markham to serve as the new
      Director of the Community & Economic Development Department for Murray City.

      The Mayor explained there was an opening for this director position that needed to be filled.
      After consultation with key staff including City Attorney G.L. Critchfield, City Administrator
      Doug Hill, HR Director Robyn Colton, and others, Mayor Hales decided the appointment of Phil
      Markham made the most sense for Murray's needs.

      Mayor Hales said it was a fairly simple decision given Phil's extensive background and
      experience relevant to the role. Specifically, Phil Markham served a full 9-year term on the
      Murray Planning Commission, giving him solid planning and zoning experience.




                                                     T
      Additionally, when a vacancy occurred last year for the City Council District 1 seat, Phil
      Markham filled that role for around 6-7 months. The Mayor felt that short-term council
      experience provided Phil critical insights into city governance.
                                  AF
      Mayor Hales shared between Phil's service on the Planning Commission dealing with
      development and land use issues, and his brief stint as an acting Councilmember immersed in
      city policies and operations, he was deemed highly qualified for the Community & Economic
      Development Director position.

      Mayor Hales stated he had no hesitations or reservations and was fully confident that Philip
      Markham was the right choice to lead the department and serve Murray's needs, especially
                       R

      given the ongoing growth and development the city is experiencing.

      DISCUSSION
            D


      Councilmember Diane Turner said she will miss having Phil as her RDA Vice Chair but looks
      forward to his continued presence and perspective in that role. She noted his experience will
      greatly benefit the city and thanked him for taking on this new position.

      Councilmember Cotter said she enjoyed sitting next to Phil on the Council and will miss that
      camaraderie. However, she believes he will do great things in his new role that will positively
      impact Murray for future generations. She is happy with the Mayor's decision.

      Mayor Hales noted Phil's over 30 years of prior experience with Murray City, 5 years with West
      Valley City, and private sector roles. He highlighted his ability to confidently make decisions.

      Councilmember Dominguez echoed appreciation for initial discussions with Phil about city
      issues and believes this is a natural transition from the Council. She is glad the Mayor made
      this choice and knows Phil will passionately serve the community's best interests. She thanked
      him for his service on the Council and looks forward to his contributions in this new capacity.

      MOTION

      Councilmember Turner moved to approve the resolution providing advice and consent to the
      Mayor's appointment of Philip J. Markham as the City's Community and Economic
      Development Department Director. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Cotter.
       ROLL CALL

       Ayes: Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Dominguez, Councilmember Turner
       Excused: Councilmember Hrechkosy

       Motion passes 3-0

       DISCUSSION

       Philip Markham thanked the Council for their support. He said that after working for Murray
       City for many years, he didn't fully realize how much he missed it until serving on the Council.
       Being appointed to fill the vacancy opened his eyes to how much he enjoyed his career with the
       city.

       It reignited a passion for public service in Murray. He did not actively pursue this director
       position, but was approached about it. The opportunity to continue working with the great
       people at Murray that he has gotten to know again over the past 6 months made him
       appreciate and accept the opportunity.

       He really enjoyed being on the Council and if there was a way to do both roles he would have.
       But taking the director position was an important decision for him and his wife. He pledged to
       give his best efforts in this new capacity and thanked the Council for their confidence in him.

       The Swearing-In Ceremony was conducted by Brooke Smith.

MAYOR'S REPORT AND QUESTIONS
                                                      T
                                   AF
 Mayor Hales thanked the Council for their support in appointing Phil Markham as the new Community &
 Economic Development Director. He said it came together quickly with no advance notice, but after
 discussion with his wife and staff, Phil was clearly the right choice and has his full confidence.

 The Mayor noted appreciation for the Council for the new City Hall building. He acknowledged some
 ongoing hiccups with the new 80,000 square foot facility but thanked staff including Brooke Smith and
 Doug Hill for their work orchestrating the smooth move.
                        R

 Mayor Hales complimented Doug's phenomenal calmness and patience through it all. He also expressed
 gratitude for the wonderful working relationship between himself and the Council, highlighting Council
 staff Jennifer Kennedy, Pattie Johnson, and Crystal Brown.
             D


 The Mayor thanked the Council for their continued support and collaborative relationship, without which
 he could not do his job. He concluded his report and opened it up for any Council questions.

 Councilmembers shared thanks to the presenters and staff.

ADJOURNMENT
 Councilmember Dominguez motioned to adjourn the meeting at 8:06 p.m.
City Council




       T
  AF
 July 18, 2023



 R
D
Applicant: Murray Planning Staff
Request: Text Amendment to Section 17.16.010(A) and (D) changing




                                   T
the minimum number of Hearing Officers from three to two; and




                         AF
the number of terms they may serve from three to five terms (for a



                        R
maximum of 15 years).
Address: N/A         D
Reasons for Requested Text Amendment
 Filling the Hearing Officer position is difficult and takes a certain type of background.
                                                                                      2.68-Acre Site | 15 single-family lots
 Per Section 17.16.010(A): “Hearing officers shall, at a minimum, have such training and experience




                                                         T
  as will qualify them to conduct administrative or quasi-judicial hearings regarding land use, land
  development and regulatory codes dealing with issues related to land use.”




                                         AF
 Planning Staff believes a qualified hearing officer should have a background in either planning,
  land use, or an attorney.




                                        R
 This of course limits those individuals who would be good candidates.


                                  D
                         Statistics
 YEAR        Hearing Officer    # of Meetings   # of Cases
      2022          Finlinson               4                11
                     Harland                6                 8




                                    T
      2021          Finlinson               2                 2




                      AF
                     Harland                3                 3
      2020          Finlinson               2                 2
                     Harland                3                 3




                     R
      2019          Finlinson               1                 1
                     Harland                3                 3

4 Year
Average
                D
             Finlinson
             Harland
                                         2.25
                                         3.75
                                                           4
                                                        4.25
FINDINGS
Based on the analysis of the proposed text amendments and review of the Murray City Planning
Staff, the staff concludes the following:




                                              T
1. The proposed text amendments have been carefully considered and provide better
   utilization of volunteer public service of citizens.




                               AF
2. The proposed text amendment is consistent with the Purpose of the Murray City Code for
   serving as an appeal authority for appeals of land use decisions and requests for variances
   under this title.




                              R
3.   The proposed text meets the qualifications for Hearing Officers.


                        D
Staff Recommendation




                                T
The Planning Commission and staff recommend that the City




                  AF
Council APPROVE the requested amendment to Sections
17.16.010(A) and (D) relating to the number of Hearing Officers and
the number of terms they may serve.




                 R
            D
             T
         AF
        R
THANK YOU!
       D
Fencing              Materials        Public Improvements




Garbage              Open Space




                                  T
                      AF
                                       Moderate Income Housing

Parking              Public Comment




                     R
Elevation & Height   D
                     Access             Floorplan
Dunno but cool         Signs




Dunno but cool         Process/next steps




                                   T
                        AF
Grading and Drainage




                       R
Zoning Standards       D
Opening Ceremonies
 1. Call to Order
       Council in Attendance:

       [Vacant], District #1
       Pamela Cotter, District #2
                                                     T
                                  AF
       Rosalba Dominguez, District #3
       Diane Turner, District #4
       Garry Hrechkosy, District #5
       Jennifer Kennedy, Council Director
       Pattie Johnson, Council Office Administrator III

       Administrative Staff in Attendance:
                        R

       Brett A. Hales, Mayor
       Doug Hill, Chief Administrative Office
       Tammy Kikuchi, Chief Communication Officer
              D


       G.L. Critchfield, City Attorney
       Brooke Smith, City Recorder
       Craig Burnett, Police Chief
       Joey Mittelman, Fire Chief
       Greg Bellon, Interim General Manager of Power
       Eric Bracewell, Metering Technician for Power
       Lori Edmunds, Cultural Programs Manager
       Russ Kakala, Public Works Director
       Philip Markham, Community and Economic Development Director

       Others in Attendance:
       Daniel Olsson, David Rodgers, Dave Carr, Jennifer Brass, Jim Brass, Bill Cotter, V. Kim Martinez,
       Janice Strobell, Wendy ParsonsBaker, Anthony Semone, Clark Bullen, Friends and Family of
       Eric Bracewell.

       Opening Ceremonies

       Call to Order – Councilmember Turner called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.

 2. Pledge of Allegiance
       The audience was invited to recite the Pledge of Allegiance led by Wendy ParsonsBaker.
Approval of Minutes
  1. Council Meeting - June 27, 2023
       MOTION

       Councilmember Hrechkosy moved to approve the minutes from Council Meeting - June 27,
       2023. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Dominguez.

       ROLL CALL

       Ayes: Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Dominguez, Councilmember Turner,
       Councilmember Hrechkosy


       Motion passes 4-0

Special Recognition
  1. Murray City Employee of the Month, Eric Bracewell, Metering Technician, Power Department., Greg
     Bellon, Diane Turner and Mayor Hales presenting.
       PRESENTATION

       Councilmember Turner introduced Eric Bracewell, as the Employee of the Month. Eric
       Bracewell is a Metering Technician in the Power Department. Councilmember Turner



                                                       T
       congratulated Eric on recently completing his apprenticeship and passing his metering
       technician test. She noted that Eric started working for the city in 2005 as an arborist, later he
       became a Line Worker Apprentice and then a Line Worker before deciding to try the Metering
                                   AF
       Division. Councilmember Turner praised Eric's willingness to learn new skills and apply his
       knowledge to improve the power department, as well as his positive attitude and willingness to
       help others. She expressed appreciation for Eric's years of service to the city and his hard
       work.

       Mayor Hales thanked Eric for his 18 years of service. The Mayor noted Eric's positive
       reputation among coworkers, and presented Eric with a certificate; a $50 gift card; and told
                        R

       him, his name will appear on the plaque located in the Council Chambers.

       Greg Bellon remarked he knew Eric from a previous utility job. He outlined Eric's
       accomplishments of two 4-year apprenticeships, equating it to two bachelor's degrees and 8
                D


       years of experience and learning. Greg complimented Eric as a thinker, doer, and someone
       trustworthy who constantly asks how he can help.

       Eric introduced his family, including his wife of nearly 30 years, and children. He thanked Greg
       and the city for the recognition and consideration as Employee of the Month.

       Councilmembers thanked Eric for his service, and stated they appreciated him being a part of
       Murray City.

Citizen Comments
Comments will be limited to three minutes, step to the microphone, state your name and city of residence,
and fill out the required form.
 The meeting was open for public comment.

 Jim Brass

    Jim Brass, a resident of Murray, announced he is withdrawing from the upcoming election due to
    personal health issues. He stated this was a difficult decision, but better for him and his family. He
    wished the other candidates good luck and expressed his love for the city of Murray.

 Clark Bullen
    Clark Bullen, a resident of District 3 in Murray, expressed his appreciation for the city forming a
    downtown steering committee for the development project. He believes this demonstrates the city is
    taking the proper steps to ensure the important downtown block redevelopment is done right.

    Clark noted the opportunities with the downtown site being close to the new city hall. He is glad the
    city is making extra efforts like the upcoming open houses on August 14 to gather citizen input and
    feedback on what they want to see.

 No additional citizen comments were given, and the open citizen comment period was closed.

Consent Agenda
  1. Consider confirmation of the Mayor's appointment of Kim Martinez to the Arts Advisory board for a
     partial term from now until January 15, 2024., Mayor Hales presenting.
       PRESENTATION

       Mayor Hales introduced Kim Martinez, who was appointed to fill a partial term on the Arts
       Advisory Board. The Mayor reviewed Kim's resume, noting she is extremely qualified and the
       city is fortunate to have her join the Arts Advisory Board.

       Mayor Hales described Kim as a delight to be around who brings sunshine and positivity, as
       others have also observed about her. He expressed excitement for Kim to join the board and




                                                     T
       stated the council would confirm her appointment that evening.

       MOTION
                                   AF
       Councilmember Cotter moved to approve the confirmation of the Mayor's appointment of Kim
       Martinez to the Arts Advisory board for a partial term from now until January 15, 2024. The
       motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Dominguez.

       ROLL CALL

       Ayes: Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Dominguez, Councilmember Turner,
                        R

       Councilmember Hrechkosy

       Motion passes 4-0
              D


Public Hearings
None scheduled.
Business Items
  1. Consider a resolution approving the Mayor's appointment of Elvon Farrell to the NeighborWorks Salt
     Lake Board, a Community Development Corporation., Mayor Hales presenting.
       PRESENTATION

       Mayor Brett Hales introduced Elvon Farrell and recommends that the council appoint Elvon
       Farrell to the NeighborWorks Salt Lake Board, a Community Development Corporation.

       Mayor Hales mentioned that Elvon has worked for Murray City's Community and Economic
       Development department for two months however be believed Elvon will be phenomenal in this
       position and expressed excitement about appointing Elvon to the board and looked forward to
       the Council's confirmation so Elvon could begin serving.

       MOTION

       Councilmember Cotter moved to approve the resolution approving the Mayor's appointment of
       Elvon Farrell to the NeighborWorks Salt Lake Board, a Community Development Corporation.
       The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Hrechkosy.
       ROLL CALL

       Ayes: Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Dominguez, Councilmember Turner,
       Councilmember Hrechkosy

       Motion passes 4-0

 2. Election of a City Council Vice-Chair and consider a resolution appointing the Vice-Chair for the
    Murray City Municipal Council for the remainder of Calendar Year 2023., Garry Hrechkosy
    presenting.
       PRESENTATION

       Councilmember Hrechkosy explained they need to appoint a new Vice-Chair due to
       Councilmember Phil Markham's resignation to join the Community and Economic Development
       department.

       Councilmember Hrechkosy opened nominations for the Vice-Chair position.

       MOTION

       Councilmember Cotter moved to elect Councilmember Dominguez as the City Council Vice-
       Chair and consider a resolution appointing the Vice-Chair for the Murray City Municipal Council




                                                      T
       for the remainder of Calendar Year 2023. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember
       Turner.
                                   AF
       No other nominations were made.

       ROLL CALL

       Ayes: Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Dominguez, Councilmember Turner,
       Councilmember Hrechkosy
                        R

       Motion passes 4-0

Mayor’s Report and Questions
              D


 Mayor Hales thanked resident Clark Bullen for the positive feedback about the city's downtown planning
 efforts. He noted they promptly changed the open house dates once made aware of a conflict. The Mayor
 appreciates this acknowledgment of the city's responsiveness.

 The Mayor gave updates about the outside pool, facilities fixes at the new City Hall, and his ongoing
 excitement for the beautiful new city administrative building.

 Councilmember Hrechkosy shared he has received consistent positive feedback while door-knocking
 about the city's incredible employees in all departments. Residents express commitment to staying in
 Murray.

 Councilmember Cotter relayed a story about a citizen calling unaware the utility payment mailbox had
 been moved from the post office to the new City Hall. She thanked the Mayor for including this info in a
 recent newsletter which allowed her to direct the resident to the new location.

Adjournment
 The meeting was adjourned at 6:55 p.m.
                                  MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                      SPECIAL MEETING
                                           District #1 Interviews
                                             Meeting Minutes

                                    Tuesday, August 8, 2023
                                        Murray City Hall
                    10 East 4800 South, Council Chambers, Murray, Utah 84107

Attendance: Council Members and others:
    Vacancy                         District #1
    Garry Hrechkosy - Chair         District #5
    Rosalba Dominguez – Vice Chair  District #3
    Pam Cotter                      District #2
    Diane Turner                    District #4

Brett Hales      Mayor                               Jennifer Kennedy        City Council Executive Director
G.L. Critchfield City Attorney                       Pattie Johnson          Council Administration
Tammy Kikuchi Chief Communications Officer           Brooke Smith            City Recorder
Phil Markham     CED Director                        Craig Burnett           Police Chief
Loran Paslaich   Murray Chamber of Commerce          Brenda Moore            Finance Director
Zach Smallwood CED                                   Laura Brown             City Recorders Office
Anthony Semone NeighborWorks                         Citizens

Call to order, conducting: Council Chair Hrechkosy called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m. He announced
that two applicants were present for the interview:
     • David Rodgers
     • Roberto Paul Pickett
Mr. Hrechkosy pointed out that both applicants are also on the ballot for the upcoming election for the
District #1 council member position.

Interim Council Member District 1 Process – City Attorney, Mr. Critchfield shared State law requirements
about holding the interviews in an open public meeting, discussed how the interview process would be
conducted and explained how Council Members would vote immediately following the interview process.
He clarified that with two candidates, if there was not a majority of three votes during the first round of
voting, a second vote would occur. If a majority of three votes did not occur in the second round, a coin
toss would determine the chosen candidate.

Each candidate was asked the following four questions:
  1. Please describe your previous work in the community and how those experiences qualify you for a
      position on the Council.
  2. Based on what you know about City government, what do you see as top priorities for the City and
      why?
  3. What do you feel is the most important responsibility of a city council member and why?
  4. If you could change one past council decision, what would it be and why?
Murray City Municipal Council
Special Meeting – District #1 Interviews
August 8, 2023                                                                                   Page 2

  •    First Roll Call:
       o Ms. Cotter: Paul Pickett
       o Ms. Dominguez: David Rodgers
       o Ms. Turner: David Rodgers
       o Mr. Hrechkosy: Paul Pickett – Mr. Hrechkosy explained that because the City was about to hold
            an election for District #1 council person, he took the opinion that however other Council
            Members voted, he would push the outcome to a tie. The reason for doing so was that he did
            not believe the City Council should be placing weight on this vote.

  •    Second Roll Call:
       o Ms. Cotter: Paul Pickett
       o Ms. Dominguez: David Rodgers
       o Ms. Turner: David Rodgers
       o Mr. Hrechkosy: Paul Pickett

  •    Coin Toss
       o Heads: David Rodgers
       o Tails: Paul Pickett
            Coin Toss: Heads – David Rodgers

Consider a resolution appointing David Rodgers as Interim Murray City Council Member for Council
District 1, pursuant to Section 20A-1-510 of the Utah Code to serve until January 2, 2024. – Ms. Cotter
motioned to approve the resolution. Ms. Dominguez seconded the motion.

   •    Council roll call vote:
        Ayes: Ms. Cotter, Ms. Dominguez, Ms. Turner, Mr. Hrechkosy,
        Nays: None
        Abstentions: None

        Motion passed 4-0

Swearing-In Interim City Council Member District 1. – City Recorder, Ms. Smith proceeded with the
swearing in of Mr. Rodgers.

Adjournment: 5:37 p.m.
                                                             Pattie Johnson
                                                             Council Office Administrator III
          Citizen
         Comments
Limited to three minutes, unless otherwise approved by Council
Public Hearings
Public Hearing
      #1
                                    ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŐĞŶĐǇ
                                    &ŝŶĂŶĐĞ Θ ĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ
                                    FY 2023-2024 Truth in Taxation
                                    Public Hearing

                                    ŽƵŶĐŝů DĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗August 22, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 State law required public hearing concerning the Property tax
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ             increase
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  WƵďůŝĐ ,ĞĂƌŝŶŐ Θ ŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ KƌĚŝŶĂŶĐĞ
801-264-2513
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Tax levies ordinance, pdf of presentation
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ

                    Budget Impact



                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for         State law requires a public hearing when a property tax revenue
Presentation             increase is requested. The budget includes a requested revenue
                         increase of $351,554 or 3.22%.
ϭϬ DŝŶƵƚĞƐ

Is This Time             With the tax increase the tax levy for the city is .001513, with
                         out the tax increase the levy would have been .001467
Sensitive
Yes                       The Library tax levy is .000331. No tax increase is proposed for
                         the library.
Mayor’s Approval



Date
May 15, 2023
                          NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE

                                       MURRAY CITY

Murray City is proposing to increase its property tax revenue.

    •   The Murray City tax on a $521,000 residence would increase from $420.37 to
        $433.55, which is $13.18 per year.
    •   The Murray City tax on a $521,000 business would increase from $764.31 to
        $788.27, which is $23.96 per year.
    •   If the proposed budget is approved, Murray City would increase its property tax
        budgeted revenue by 3.17% above last year's property tax budgeted revenue
        excluding eligible new growth.

All concerned citizens are invited to a public hearing on the tax increase.

                                     PUBLIC HEARING

    Date/Time:          8/22/2023 at 6:30 p.m.
    Location:           Murray City Hall Council Chambers
                        10 East 4800 South
                        Murray, Utah

To obtain more information regarding the tax increase, citizens may contact the Murray
City at 801-264-2513.

        DATED this 29th day of June 2023.


                                                        MURRAY CITY CORPORATION



                                                        __________________________
                                                        Brooke Smith
                                                        City Recorder


Publication Date: August 8, 2023
PH23-18

1. Electronically (UCA 45-1-101)
2. Utah Public Notice Website
3. City’s Website
4. At least one public location
                                  ORDINANCE NO. 23-__

       AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE RATE OF TAX LEVIES FOR THE
       FISCAL YEAR COMMENCING JULY 1, 2023, AND ENDING JUNE 30,
       2024.

                                         PREAMBLE

        UTAH CODE ANN. Title 59, Chapter 2 states that each year, the governing body of
each city shall, by ordinance or resolution, adopt final tax levies for its General and Library
Funds. The proposed total tax rates exceed the certified tax rate. UTAH CODE ANN. Title
59, Chapter 2 provides for certain notice and hearing requirements if the proposed total
tax rates exceed the certified tax rate.

        Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. Title 59, Chapter 2 the Council caused to be
published a notice stating that the Council would have a public hearing on August 22,
2023, at 6:30 p.m. in the Murray City Council Chambers, 10 East 4800 South, Murray,
Utah to receive public comment on the proposed tax levies for its General Fund and
Library Fund which would exceed the certified tax rate. The notice was published in the
Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News once each week for two weeks preceding August
22, 2023. The August 22, 2023, public hearing was not less than seven (7) days after the
first publication. The notice was also published on the Utah Public Notice website and the
Public Legal Notice website, as required by law. The notice was also published on the
City’s website and posted at city hall.

       On August 22, 2023, pursuant to the notice, the Council held a public hearing to
receive public comment regarding the tax levy in the General Fund and the tax levy in the
Library Fund. The Murray City Municipal Council wants to adopt final levies for fiscal year
2023-2024 subject to the requirements of UTAH CODE ANN. Title 59, Chapter 2.

       BE IT ENACTED by the Murray City Municipal Council as follows:

        Section 1.  Purpose. The purpose of this Ordinance is to adopt the tax levies for
fiscal year 2023-2024 having complied with the requirements of UTAH CODE ANN. Title
59, Chapter 2.

       Section 2.    Enactment.

       1.     The Murray City Municipal Council hereby levies, upon property within the
City, made taxable by law in the year 2023 for the fiscal year of the City ending June 30,
2024, a tax of .001513 on each dollar of taxable valuation of said property as revenue in
the General Fund and a tax of .000331 on each dollar of taxable valuation of said property
as revenue in the Library Fund for a combined total tax of .001844 on each dollar of
taxable valuation of said property.
       2.     The Murray City Municipal Council hereby further levies a tax to cover the
costs of mandates by the Utah State Legislature or judicial or administrative orders under
UTAH CODE ANN. Title 59, Chapter 2 as determined by the Utah State Tax Commission and
the Salt Lake County Auditor.

      3.      The tax levies herein above determined and levied shall be certified by the
City Recorder to the Salt Lake County Auditor pursuant to the provisions of UTAH CODE
ANN. Title 59, Chapter 2.

      4.    The City hereby expressly reserves the power and right to amend any tax
levy made herein as it may deem just and appropriate under the law.

      Section 3.    Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately on its
passage.

      PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED, this               day of August 2023.


                                         MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                         _____________________________________
                                         Garry Hrechkosy, Chair


ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

     Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on the _____ day of
____________, 2023.


MAYOR'S ACTION: Approved.

      DATED this _____ day of _________________________, 2023.



                                         _____________________________________
                                         Brett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:
________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder




                           CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

       I hereby certify that this Ordinance was published according to law on the _____
day of _______________________, 2023.



                                        _____________________________________
                                        Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Truth in Taxation
 Public Hearing
              August 22, 2023
                 What is Truth in Taxation

X   Truth in Taxation is the common term used for Utah’s property tax system
X   The statute was passed in 1985
X   It is designed to prevent property taxes from increasing just because property
    values are increasing.
X   Cities are guaranteed the same property tax revenue plus new growth each
    year
X   The mill levy adjusts down as property values increase
X   There is a process outlined if a City want to increase the revenue it receives.
How your property tax rate is calculated

                              Calendar 2021 Calendar 2022 Calendar 2023
Taxable Property Value       $ 5,861,914,637 $ 7,207,277,338 $ 7,566,201,877

Prior Years Revenue              9,298,286        9,425,959      10,905,878
Properties Added (Growth)          127,673           66,025         193,740
Requested Revenue Increase              -         1,413,894         351,554
   Property Tax Revenue      $   9,425,959 $     10,905,878 $    11,451,172

Tax rate                          0.001608        0.001513         0.001513
Salt Lake County FY2023 Property Tax Rates
     Order                  City   City       Fire       Police       Total
      1      Uninc./Townships      0.000048   0.001322    0.001984    0.003354
      2      SLC                   0.003158          0            0   0.003158
      3      Herriman              0.000194   0.001320    0.001320    0.002834
      4      West Valley           0.002800          0            0   0.002800
      5      Millcreek             0.001453   0.001322            0   0.002775
      6      South Salt Lake       0.002565          0            0   0.002565
      7      Riverton                     0   0.001267    0.001177    0.002444
      8      Midvale               0.000870   0.001322            0   0.002192
      9      Taylorsville          0.000741   0.001322            0   0.002063
      10     Murray                0.001513          0            0   0.001513
      11     West Jordan           0.001476          0            0   0.001476
      12     Cottonwood Heights    0.001442          0            0   0.001442
      13     South Jordan          0.001440          0            0   0.001440
      14     Holladay              0.001330          0            0   0.001330
      15     Bluffdale             0.001161          0            0   0.001161
      16     Sandy                 0.000942          0            0   0.000942
      17     Draper                0.000927          0            0   0.000927
                   Entities Proposing Tax Increases
Entity                       old tax new tax $ change % change
Town of Alta                   661.48 1,086.49 425.01    64.25%
Bluffdale                      372.54 471.78    99.24    26.64%
Herriman City Safety           426.24 490.27    64.03    15.02%
Sandy City                     317.77 365.09    47.32    14.89%
Jordan Valley Water             95.75   104.65   8.90     9.30%
Granite School               1,431.91 1,505.72  73.81     5.15%
West Jordan City               372.56 391.27    18.71     5.02%
Central Utah Water
Conservancy                    119.62 123.64      4.02   3.36%
Midvale City                   207.90 214.88      6.98   3.36%
Murray City                    420.37 433.55     13.18   3.14%    Entity                       old tax new tax $ change % change
Salt Lake City School dist   1,220.63 1,238.69   18.06   1.48%    Town of Alta                   661.48 1,086.49 425.01    64.25%
Jordan School                1,650.76 1,675.08   24.32   1.47%    Bluffdale                      372.54 471.78    99.24    26.64%
Salt Lake City                 808.16 819.88     11.72   1.45%    Granite School               1,431.91 1,505.72  73.81     5.15%
Salt Lake City Library         183.74 185.96      2.22   1.21%    Herriman City Safety           426.24 490.27    64.03    15.02%
West Valley City               595.06 597.66      2.60   0.44%    Sandy City                     317.77 365.09    47.32    14.89%
                                                                  Jordan School                1,650.76 1,675.08  24.32     1.47%
                                                                  West Jordan City               372.56 391.27    18.71     5.02%
                                                                  Salt Lake City School dist   1,220.63 1,238.69  18.06     1.48%
                                                                  Murray City                    420.37 433.55    13.18     3.14%
                                                                  Salt Lake City                 808.16 819.88    11.72     1.45%
                                                                  Jordan Valley Water             95.75   104.65   8.90     9.30%
                                                                  Midvale City                   207.90 214.88     6.98     3.36%
                                                                  Central Utah Water
                                                                  Conservancy                   119.62   123.64    4.02    3.36%
                                                                  West Valley City              595.06   597.66    2.60    0.44%
                                                                  Salt Lake City Library        183.74   185.96    2.22    1.21%
 Salt Lake County FY2024
Proposed Property Tax Rates
Order               City       City       Fire   Police    Total
  1     Uninc./Townships     0.000057   0.001347 0.002149 0.003553
  3     Herriman             0.000194   0.001318 0.001516 0.003028
  2     Salt Lake City       0.003012          0        0 0.003012
  5     Millcreek            0.001431   0.001347        0 0.002778
  4     West Valley          0.002758          0        0 0.002758
  7     Riverton                    0   0.001255 0.001164 0.002419
  6     South Salt Lake      0.002381          0        0 0.002381
  8     Midvale              0.000892   0.001347        0 0.002239
  9     Taylorsville         0.000731   0.001347        0 0.002078
 10     Murray               0.001513          0        0 0.001513
 11     West Jordan          0.001499          0        0 0.001499
 12     Cottonwood Heights   0.001442          0        0 0.001442
 13     South Jordan         0.001425          0        0 0.001425
 14     Holladay             0.001322          0        0 0.001322
 15     Bluffdale            0.000976    0.00026        0 0.001236
 16     Sandy                0.001057          0        0 0.001057
 17     Draper               0.000896          0        0 0.000896
Where your property tax goes



        57¢                                     17¢


                                       16¢
                                                       10¢



              Murray School District    SLCO   MC     other


         Within Murray School District
Where your property tax goes




                59¢                 14¢    14¢    13¢




         Granite School District    SLCO    MC   Other


          Granite School District
    A Property tax increase is needed because?
X   When property values increase the tax rate is adjusted down UNLESS the City
    requests a property tax increase. The City is guaranteed the same amount of
    Property tax dollars + new growth every year.
X   The increased revenue will cover the cost of adding 2 new police officers, a
    paramedic/firefighter, the maintenance on 2 new parks and a portion of the
    cost of operating the Murray Theater.
X   In 2018 (the last property tax increase of 45%) the city was asked to do more
    frequent and smaller increases. A 15% increase was approved in 2022. This
    request is 3.22%
              How Much is the increase?

X   The new revenue is a 3.22% increase for the City tax or $351,554. No increase
    was requested for the Library Tax.


X   For the average city residence assessed at $521,000 the tax increase will be
    $13.45 per year or $1.12 per month


X   For a commercial property valued at $521,000 the tax increase will be $24.46
    per year or $2.03 per month


X   The amount of increase you may experience will vary based on how your
    property value increased in comparison with other areas or property types
    within the City.
Questions?
Public Hearing
      #2
                                    &ŝŶĂŶĐĞ Θ ĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ

                                    FY2023-2024 final budget adoption


                                    ŽƵŶĐŝů DĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗August 22, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Adopt the FY2023 - 2024 Budget adoption
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  After a pubic hearing consideration of an ordinance adopting the
801-264-2513             FY2023-2024 city budget.
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Copy of the ordinance is attached. A PDF of the budget is on the
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ             website, and has been emailed to council members.
                    Budget Impact
                         FY2023-2024 budget.


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        After the Truth in Taxation hearing and consideration of setting
Presentation             the tax rate a public hearing to discuss the rest of the budget
                         needs to be held, followed by adoption of the final budget.
ϭϬ DŝŶƵƚĞƐ

Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
August 7, 2023
                            MURRAY CITY CORPORATION

       NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON THE CITY’S TENTATIVE BUDGET,
                             AS AMENDED,

                            FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023 - 2024

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on the 22nd day of August 2023, at the hour of 6:30
p.m., in the City Council Chambers of the Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Murray,
Utah, the Murray City Municipal Council will hold a Public Hearing on the City’s
Tentative Budget, as amended, for fiscal year 2023-2024. Said budget includes:

a.           General Fund;
b.           Library Fund;
c.           Capital Projects Fund;
d.           Water Fund;
e.           Waste Water Fund;
f.           Power Fund;
g.           Murray Parkway Recreation Fund;
h.           Telecommunications Fund;
i.           Solid Waste Management Fund;
j.           Storm Water Fund;
k.           Central Garage Fund;
l.           Retained Risk Reserve Fund;
m.           Redevelopment Agency Fund;
n.           Cemetery Perpetual Care Fund.
o.           Municipal Building Authority Fund.

All interested persons in attendance shall be given an opportunity to be heard, for or
against, the estimates of revenue and expenditures or any item thereof in the City’s
Tentative Budget, as amended, of any fund.

A copy of the City’s Tentative Budget, as amended, may be reviewed by interested
persons from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM in the Finance and Administration Office, Murray City
Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Room 160, Murray Utah, and in the office of the City
Recorder, Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Room 155, and on the Murray City
website at www.murray.utah.gov.

      DATED this 7th day of August, 2023.

                                         MURRAY CITY CORPORATION


                                         ____________________________________
                                         Brooke Smith
                                         City Recorder
DATE OF PUBLICATION: August 8, 2023

1.    in three places in the City;
2.    on the Utah Public Notice Website; and
3.    on the home page of the City website (until the hearing takes place).
                                ORDINANCE NO. 23 -__


       AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE FINAL 2023-2024 FISCAL YEAR
       BUDGETS FOR MURRAY CITY INCLUDING THE LIBRARY FUND
       BUDGET.

                                       PREAMBLE


       Section 10-6-118 of Utah Code, as amended, requires adoption of the City’s final
budgets before June 30th of each year. Tentative budgets approved by the Murray City
Municipal Council have been open for public inspection since April 18, 2023, as required
by law. Proper notice of the public hearing for the consideration of the adoption of the
Final Budgets was published in the Salt Lake Tribune, Deseret News, the Utah Public
Notice website, the Murray City website and posted at City Hall. Said public hearing was
held on June 6, 2023, June 27, 2023, and another public hearing was held August 22,
2023 and public comment was received. After considering input from the public, the
Murray City Municipal Council wants to adopt its Final Budgets.

       The Murray City Municipal Council adopts, as revenue to the General Fund, a tax
levy that exceeds the certified tax rate. By increasing the tax levy above the certified tax
rate under Utah law, the City was required to comply with the truth-in-taxation
requirements before its Library and General Fund budgets become final. Therefore, the
City adopts its budgets which have been subject to compliance with the Truth-in-
Taxation laws, UTAH CODE ANN. Title 59, Chapter 2.

       BE IT ENACTED by the Murray City Municipal Council as follows:

       Section 1.    Purpose.

       The purpose of this Ordinance is to adopt the Final Fiscal Year 2023-2024 Budgets
of the City including the Library Fund budget, subject to compliance with requirements of
UTAH CODE ANN. Title 59, Chapter 2.


       Section 2.    Enactment.

        The Final Budgets for Fiscal Year 2023-2024 are hereby adopted and shall consist
of the following:

          General Fund                           $ 58,816,760
          Capital Projects Fund                  $ 16,308,308
          Water Fund                             $ 8,535,978
         Wastewater Fund                       $ 9,527,905
         Power Fund                            $ 50,792,418
         Parkway Fund                          $ 1,869,049
         Telecommunications Fund               $     45,500
         Solid Waste Fund                      $ 2,533,000
         Storm Water Fund                      $ 3,274,000
         Central Garage Fund                   $    675,366
         Retained Risk Fund                    $ 2,071,913
         Cemetery Perpetual Care Fund          $     56,500

      Section 3.   Special Revenue Funds.

      The Final Budgets of the Library, Redevelopment Agency, and Municipal Building
Authority are as follows:

             Library                           $ 2,927,289
             Redevelopment Agency              $ 1,440,682
             Municipal Building Authority      $ 1,823,418

      The Redevelopment Agency Board and Municipal Building Authority have, in
separate action, passed and ratified the Redevelopment Agency Final Budget and the
Municipal Building Authority Final Budget, respectively.

      Section 4.   Compliance with UTAH CODE ANN. Title 59, Chapter 2.

       Since the Final Budgets include an increase in revenue from a tax levy that
exceeds the certified tax rate, the budgets for the Library and General Funds adopted
herein are subject to compliance with the requirements of UTAH CODE ANN. Title 59,
Chapter 2.

      Section 5.   Adjustments.

      A. The Budgets are subject to adjustments, if any, that need to be made when the
         Murray City Municipal Council adopts the tax levies based on the certified tax
         rate.

      B. The Library and General Fund Budgets are subject to adjustments, if any, that
         need to be made following compliance with UTAH CODE ANN. Title 59,
         Chapter 2.

      C. The Director of Finance is hereby authorized to adjust the budgets to reflect the
         actual certified tax levies provided to the City.

      Section 6.    Transfer of Unencumbered or Unexpended Appropriated Funds.
      The Director of Finance is authorized to make such transfer of any unencumbered
or unexpended appropriated funds pertaining to the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year budget at the
close of the 2023-2024 fiscal year in conformity with provision of UTAH CODE ANN.
Section 10-6-124, as amended.

      Section 7.   Effective Date.

      This Ordinance shall take effect on July 1, 2023.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on this
_______ day of __________, 2023.

                                        MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                        _______________________________
                                        Garry Hrechkosy, Chair
ATTEST:



__________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

      DATED this ____ day of ___________, 2023.



                                        _______________________________
                                        Brett A. Hales, Mayor
ATTEST:



__________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                          CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

       I hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the ____ day of ________, 2023.



                                        _______________________________
                                        Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Adjournment
