 Council Meeting
February 21, 2023
                        Murray City Municipal Council
                             Notice of Meeting
                                     February 21, 2023
                                     Murray City Center
                         5025 South State Street, Murray, Utah 84107



Meeting Agenda

4:15 p.m.      Committee of the Whole – Conference Room #107
               Garry Hrechkosy conducting

Approval of Minutes
      Committee of the Whole – January 17, 2023

Discussion Items
    1. Discussion on a resolution approving an agreement between Murray City Corporation
       and Life Safety Inspection Vault LLC for the collection, organization, and storage of fire
       and life safety inspection reports. – Joseph Mittelman and Steve Roberson (10 minutes)
    2. Discussion on a resolution approving an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the
       City, the Utah Community Action Head Start Program and Murray City School District to
       lease City property. – Doug Hill (5 minutes)
    3. Discussion on a resolution approving an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the
       City and Murray City School District for the license and access to a city communication
       tower. – Doug Hill (5 minutes)
    4. Discussion on donations for non-profit entities. – G.L. Critchfield and Jennifer Kennedy
       (20 minutes)
    5. Open and Public Meetings Act and Anti-Harassment Training – G.L. Critchfield (20
       minutes)
    6. Legislative Update – Pam Cotter and G.L. Critchfield. (10 minutes)

Adjournment

Break for Redevelopment Agency Meeting (Separate Agenda)

The public may view the Council Meeting via the live stream at www.murraycitylive.com or
https://www.facebook.com/Murraycityutah/. Those wishing to have their comments read into the record
may send an email by 5:00 p.m. the day prior to the meeting date to city.council@murray.utah.gov.
Comments are limited to less than three minutes (approximately 300 words for emails) and must include
your name and address.

6:30 p.m.      Council Meeting – Council Chambers
               Rosalba Dominguez conducting.

Opening Ceremonies
      Call to Order
Murray City Council Agenda
February 21, 2023                                                                                                                 2

         Pledge of Allegiance

Approval of Minutes
      Council Meeting – February 7, 2023

Special Recognition
   1. Murray City Employee of the Month, Scott White, Fire Marshal’s Office Inspector –
       Rosalba Dominguez and Joey Mittelman presenting.
   2. Presentation of a resolution of the Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District Board of
       Trustees expressing appreciation to Board Member Diane Turner. Pam Roberts
       presenting.

Citizen Comments
        Comments will be limited to three minutes, step to the microphone, state your name
        and city of residence, and fill out the required form.

Consent Agenda
Mayor Hales presenting.
   1. Consider confirmation of the Mayor’s appointment of Karen Summerhays to the Murray
      Senior Recreation Center Advisory Board for a three-year term beginning February 2023
      to expire January 2026.

Public Hearings
   1. None scheduled.

Business Items
   1. Consider a resolution accepting the transfer of Riverview Park from Salt Lake County to
       Murray City. Doug Hill presenting.
   2. Consider a resolution accepting the transfer of Woodstock Meadows Park from Salt Lake
       County to Murray City. Doug Hill presenting.

Mayor’s Report and Questions

Adjournment
                                                            NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City
Recorder (801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the
other Council Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers will be able to hear all discussions.

On Friday, February 17, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of
the Murray City Center, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City
Recorder. A copy of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing
website at http://pmn.utah.gov .
Murray City Council Agenda
February 21, 2023                                            3




                             Jennifer Kennedy
                             Council Executive Director
                             Murray City Municipal Council
 Committee
of the Whole
 Committee
of the Whole
   Minutes
                                     MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                      COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                                            Meeting Minutes
                                       Tuesday, January 17, 2023
           Murray City Center - 5025 South State Street, Conference Room, Murray, Utah 84107
Attendance:
  Council Members and others:

  Phil Markham – Vice Chair      District #1
  Diane Turner                   District #4
  Pam Cotter                     District #2
  Rosalba Dominguez              District #3
  Garry Hrechkosy – Chair        District #5

Brett Hales        Mayor                               Jennifer Kennedy     City Council Executive Director
Blaine Haacke      Power Department Manager            Pattie Johnson       Council Administration
Tammy Kikuchi      Chief Communications Officer        Brooke Smith         City Recorder
G.L. Critchfield   City Attorney                       Craig Burnett        Police Chief
Brenda Moore       Finance Director                    Steve Olson          Fire Department
Matt Youngs        Power Department                    Lorna Pasalich       Chamber of Commerce
Camron Kollman     IT                                  Brooke Smith         City Recorder

Conducting: Council Chair Hrechkosy called the meeting to order at 2:15 p.m.

Approval of Minutes: None Scheduled.

Discussion Items:
Net Metering Policy and Supply Cost Adjustment.
    Mr. Youngs explained the immediate need for staff to reevaluate the City’s net metering policy. The
    plan was to determine whether changes or modifications were necessary. He provided the City’s
    current solar net metering rate that is referred to as a Schedule 35, (Attachment #1) and noted the
    status of solar panel installations throughout Murray’s service area. The Council analyzed installations
    in Murray since 2006, compared Utah State tax credits with Federal tax credits and examined kilowatt
    production for each system size. Mr. Youngs reviewed how solar energy was produced, how net
    metering was measured and how credits were calculated.

    It was clarified that net metering customers are not paid for the electricity they export to the grid,
    and they are not giving free energy to the grid, because they receive a retail credit. Currently Murray’s
    retail rate is a one to one (1:1) credit. Mr. Youngs said many utility companies are moving away from
    crediting customers at the retail rate because large-scale solar projects are more affordable and less
    intermittent than customer owned solar generation. While customer owned solar generation systems
    do help reduce energy demand during system peak hours, without a battery system, those solar
    customers use just as much electricity as non-metering customers during evening peak hours. The
    reason more Murray residents are not installing rooftop solar is because Murray Power is very
    inexpensive and solar customers would never see a financial return on the investment to install solar.
    Murray’s last power rate increase was in 2011, so for the cost of a solar system the payback period
    could take 20 years or more.

    Based on the most recent third-party Cost of Service Analysis, Mr. Youngs proposed that Murray
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of January 17, 2023                        DRAFT                                               Page 2




    Power would continue with the one-to-one credit rate with a 10-kilowatt installation cap for
    residential solar customers; and raise the 10-kilowatt installation cap to 500-kilowatts for commercial
    solar customers. The Council would consider the proposal in an upcoming council meeting.

    Mr. Haacke discussed an additional proposal that would implement an SCA (Supplemental Cost
    Adjustment) common to utility industries and municipal power systems. He said Murray adopted the
    SCA 15 years ago, it was used sparingly and only when the City’s total power costs became larger than
    anticipated. He reviewed the City’s present electrical rate, discussed current energy challenges, and
    explained that the SCA mechanism would protect the power department budget overall. A copy of
    Murray’s present Electric Service Schedule 30 (SCA) rate was provided. (Attachment #2) Staff would
    determine if the rate needed to be modified or adjusted.

    In the meantime, if approved the SCA would assist them with handling soaring energy prices and
    meeting unexpected high-cost energy. Mr. Haacke would return to a future council meeting for City
    Council approval.

An ordinance amending Section 17.78.050 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to the minimum
area required for detached Accessory Dwelling Units.
    Ms. Nixon explained the proposed amendment that would reduce the minimum area requirement for
    detached ADUs (Accessory Dwelling Units). A property owner made the request to change the existing
    minimum lot area of 12,000 square feet to 10,000 square feet. The desire is to construct a single-
    family dwelling with a detached ADU to the rear of the property for an onsite tenant/caretaker. Ms.
    Nixon said the request would be in effect city-wide for all residentially zone properties and is not just
    specific to this property. Council would consider the request in a council meeting.

A resolution accepting a grant award from the Department of Public Safety for the State of Utah and
authorizing the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding between the City and the Department
of Public Safety for the State of Utah relating to first responder mental health services.
    Chief Burnett explained due to 2022 Utah Legislation, House Bill 23 – First Responders Mental Health
    Services, police forces are now required to look out for the mental wellness of all first responders. As
    part of the bill, grant funding was available which MPD applied for, and was awarded $20,211.

    The proposed resolution executes a Memo of Understanding that implements all provisions of the
    new legislation and allows the City to receive the funding from the Department of Public Safety. MPD
    would use funding for assisting with costs associated with paying for mental health resources for all
    first responders that would include current employees, retired officers, and all related family
    members.

Adjournment: 3:38 p.m.
                                                                 Pattie Johnson
                                                                 Council Office Administrator III
Discussion
   Items
Discussion
 Item #1
                                    Murray City Fire
                                    Department
                                    Agreement between Murray City
                                    and LIV

                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗February 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Finalize a contract with a third party compliance engine for life
Chief Joseph             safety equipment inspections
Mittelman           Action Requested
Phone #                  Approval from the council to sign a contract with the company
801-264-2708             LIV
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         None
Joseph Mittelman
Steve Roberson
                    Budget Impact
                         None


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        LIV is a data storage company and compliance engine that
Presentation             significantly helps us ensure compliance and safety in our
                         businesses.
ϭϬDŝŶƵƚĞƐ               They do this by requiring third party inspectors/technicians to
Is This Time             upload documents whenever any repairs, maintenance or
                         installations occur to any fire sprinkler or alarm system. This
Sensitive                system would notify our department with any deficiencies noted
No                       by the inspectors and greatly assist us in keeping the life safety
                         systems in our city functioning properly.
Mayor’s Approval         This item requires the City Council's approval because LIV will
                         impose a $15 fee for every item uploaded. That is LIV's business
                         model and no portion of the fees will be coming to Murray City.
Date
January 23, 2023
                               RESOLUTION NO. _____


A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN MURRAY CITY
CORPORATION AND LIFE SAFETY INSPECTION VAULT LLC FOR THE
COLLECTION, ORGANIZATION, AND STORAGE OF FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY
INSPECTION REPORTS.


      WHEREAS, local commercial buildings and businesses are required to maintain
updated Fire and Life Safety Systems (“Safety Systems”); and

       WHEREAS, third-party inspection companies (“Inspection Companies”) perform
regular inspections of these Safety Systems and provide regular reports on the types of
fire and life safety protection systems used, due dates of required inspections, and any
deficiencies that may exist; and

       WHEREAS, the Inspection Companies are required to provide updated Safety
System inspection records and reports to the local fire authority to ensure compliance
with applicable building and fire codes; and

        WHEREAS, Life Safety Inspection Vault LLC (“LIV”) offers a service which will
collect, organize, and store the various Safety System inspection records and reports
for commercial buildings and businesses located in Murray City (the “LIV Services”);
and

       WHEREAS, Inspection Companies performing inspections of commercial
buildings and businesses within the City will be required to submit their reports through
the LIV Services; and

       WHEREAS, in order to submit records and reports through the LIV Services, the
Inspection Companies will be required to pay a $15.00 fixed fee for each inspection
report submitted which will be paid directly to, and retained by, LIV; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to enter into an Agreement with LIV to govern the
terms and conditions of the collection, organization, and storage of the Safety System
reports through the LIV Services; and

       WHEREAS, it is beneficial to the City and its citizens to have the Safety System
inspection reports collected, stored, and organized to provide for a more efficient
tracking and follow-up process.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council
that:
       1.     The Agreement between Murray City and Life Safety Inspection Vault LLC
is approved, in substantially the form attached hereto as ATTACHMENT A, and that the
Mayor is authorized to execute the same.

      2.    The Agreement will become effective as stated in the Agreement.




      PASSED and APPROVED and made effective this ___ day of _________ 2023.



                                      MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                      _____________________________________
                                      Garry Hrechkosy, Chair


ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                         ATTACHMENT A

(Agreement between Murray City and Life Safety Inspection Vault LLC)
                                MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT

        THIS MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT (“Agreement”), dated                          ,2022
(“Effective Date”), is between Life Safety Inspection Vault LLC, an Idaho limited liability company
(“LIV”), and Murray City Corporation , a municipal corporation of the State of Utah, with a
principal place of business at 5025 South State Street, Murray, Utah 84107 (“Client”). The term
“Agreement” means, collectively, this Agreement, the applicable Registration Form(s), the
applicable SOW(s), and any operating rules, policies, and procedures that LIV may publish from
time to time. LIV and Client agree as follows:

SECTION 1.     ENGAGEMENT; SERVICES; DUTIES

        1.1      Engagement. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Client
engages LIV to provide Client with a software as a services (“SaaS”), web-based management of
the Client’s fire safety system permitting (collectively, the “Services”).

                1.1.1 Scope of Services. The Services consist of a SaaS application that collects,
organizes, and stores fire and life safety reports pertaining to inspection, testing, and
maintenances. The Services include the ability for Client to generate digital, customizable
reports, saving inspection companies time and paper, while providing the Client a familiar report
that is easy to read. As part of the Services, LIV provides a proactive service that includes hard
and soft copy notifications sent to building owners and follow-up phone calls to help increase
testing and maintenance activity within the Client’s jurisdiction, however any such notificatinos
or phone calls shall only be sent or performed by Client. The Services shall also include in-depth
face-to-face training with the Client’s personnel.

               1.1.2 The Vault. LIV will provide the Services through LIV’s proprietary web-
based application that will allow the Client to track and drive code compliance, reduce false alarm
activity, and provide a safer community (the “Vault”). The Vault provides a secure cloud
environment in which third-party contractors that inspect, test, and maintain fire protections
systems can submit their reports via LIV’s web application directly to the Client, facilitating a
more efficient review, tracking and follow-up process with occupants to correct deficiencies and
maintain systems.

        1.2    Designation of Key Personnel. LIV’s “Representative” is Cole Harding, phone:
855-225-4822, e-mail: Cole.harding@livsafe.com. The Client’s “Representative” is            ,
phone:                       , e-mail:                    . Client and LIV will each use best
efforts to keep the same key personnel assigned to this engagement throughout the Term. If it
becomes necessary for LIV to replace any key personnel, the replacement will be an individual
having equivalent experience and competence with the Services and the Vault

       1.3    LIV’s Responsibilities. LIV shall fully and timely provide all deliverables described
in Section 1.1 of this Agreement in material compliance with the terms, covenants, and
conditions of this Agreement and all applicable Federal, State, and local laws, rules, and
regulations (collectively, “Laws”). LIV will provide all technical and professional expertise,

MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 1
                                                                                  56428.0002.14325562.1
knowledge, management, and other resources required for accomplishing all aspects of the tasks
and activities associated with the Services. LIV shall coordinate an annual business review
meeting with representatives designated by each party either via teleconference or in person
within 60 days before each anniversary of the Effective Date. Client may request that these
meetings occur more frequently.

         1.4     Client’s Responsibilities. Client’s Representative will be responsible for exercising
general oversight of LIV’s activities in completing each SOW. Specifically, the Client’s
Representative will represent the Client’s interests in resolving day-to-day issues that may arise
during the term of this Agreement, shall participate regularly in conference calls or meetings for
status reporting, shall promptly review any written reports submitted by LIV, and shall approve
all invoices for payment, as appropriate. The Client’s Representative may give LIV timely feedback
on the acceptability of progress and task reports.

SECTION 2.     COMPENSATION

       2.1     Management Fee.

                2.1.1 LIV will collect and retain from each user submitting an inspection report a
fixed fee of $15.00 US for each system inspection submitted (the “Fixed Fee”). The Fixed Fee will
be due and payable by the end user upon uploading an inspection report. The parties will meet
and review the Fixed Fee on or about each anniversary of the Effective Date. For clarity, the Fixed
Fee is paid by the end user (e.g., the inspector) and the Client is not billed for any fees. LIV shall
not make any changes to the Fixed Fee without the prior written approval of the Client. Client’s
approval of any fees is subject to the approval of the Murray City Municipal Council. Client will
not be charged any fees for access to and use of the Vault.

               2.1.2

SECTION 3.     TERM AND TERMINATION

       3.1     Term of Agreement. The term of this Agreement is for an initial period
commencing on the Effective Date and running through the date that is 1 year from the Effective
Date (“Initial Term”). Thereafter, the Agreement will automatically renew for up to four
additional one-year terms (each, a “Renewal Term,” and collectively with the Initial Term, the
“Term”) unless, no later than 90 days before the expiration of the initial Term or any successive
Renewal Term, either Party notifies the other of its intent not to renew the Agreement.

      3.2      Termination. In addition to any other express termination right set forth in this
Agreement:

              3.2.1 Either party may terminate this Agreement, without cause, effective on 90
days written notice to the other party;

              3.2.2 Either party may terminate this Agreement, effective on written notice to
the other party, if the other Party materially breaches this Agreement, and such breach: (a) is

MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 2
                                                                                    56428.0002.14325562.1
incapable of cure; or (b) is capable of cure and remains uncured 30 days after the non- breaching
party provides the breaching party with written notice of such breach; or

                 3.2.3 Either party may terminate this Agreement, effective immediately upon
written notice to the other party, if the other party: (a) becomes insolvent or is generally unable
to pay, or fails to pay, its debts as they become due; (b) files or has filed against it, a petition for
voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or otherwise becomes subject, voluntarily or involuntarily,
to any proceeding under any domestic or foreign bankruptcy or insolvency law; (c) makes or seeks
to make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (d) applies for or has appointed
a receiver, trustee, custodian, or similar agent appointed by order of any court of competent
jurisdiction to take charge of or sell any material portion of its property or business.

         3.3    Effect of Expiration or Termination. Upon expiration or earlier termination of this
Agreement, Client shall immediately discontinue use of the LIV IP and, without limiting Client’s
obligations under Section 8, Client shall delete, destroy, or return all copies of the LIV IP and
certify in writing to the LIV that the LIV IP has been deleted or destroyed. No termination shall
affect LIV’s responsibility to remit any and all fees collected pursuant to Section 2 of this
Agreement. Upon expiration or earlier termination, Client may retain copies of all previously
prepared and stored third-party fire safety inspection reports.

        3.4     Survival. This Section 3.4 and Section 2, Section 3.3, Section 4.2, Section 7, Section
8, Section 11, Section 12, and Section 14 survive any termination or expiration of this Agreement.
No other provisions of this Agreement survive the expiration or earlier termination of this
Agreement.

SECTION 4.     WARRANTIES; LIMITATIONS

       4.1     Warranty.

               4.1.1 Vault and Services Warranties. LIV represents and warrants to Client that,
subject to Section 4:

                       (a) all Services to be provided to the Client under the Agreement will: (i)
subject to Section 4, perform in accordance with Section 1.1 of this Agreement; and (ii) be fully
and timely performed in accordance with the terms, conditions, and covenants of the
Agreement, and in material compliance with all Laws; and

                       (b) the Vault will perform, in all material respects, in accordance with
Section 1.1 of this Agreement.

               4.1.2 Intellectual Property Warranty. LIV represents and warrants that:

                      (a) LIV has, and throughout the Term of this Agreement will have, the right,
power, and authority to provide the Services and grant and perform all rights and licenses
granted or required to be granted by it under this Agreement; and


MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 3
                                                                                      56428.0002.14325562.1
                       (b) The Services and their use by Client in accordance with all
Documentation will not infringe any United States copyrights, patents, trade secrets, or other
proprietary rights of any third-party.

              4.1.3 Accuracy of Information. LIV does not warrant the accuracy of the
information that is put into the Vault by third-party inspectors, but LIV will take all prudent and
necessary steps to ensure its proper and accurate retention, transmission, and provision to
Client.

                4.1.4 Access to Client Data after Termination. Notwithstanding termination of
this Agreement for any reason, at all times, the Client will have the ability to access and download
all Client Data and related records. LIV further represents and warrants to the Client that LIV has
all rights necessary in and to any patent, copyright, trademark, service mark or other intellectual
property right used in, or assicoated with, the Vault and the Services, and that LIV is duly
authorized to enter into this Agreement and provide the Vault and the Services to the Client
under this Agreement.                  4.1.5 Non-Suspension or Debarment. LIV certifies that it
and its principals are not currently suspended or debarred from doing business with the Federal
Government, as indicated by the General Services Administration List of Parties Excluded from
Federal Procurement and Non-Procurement Programs, or any other state or local government.

       4.2   Limitations; Disclaimer of Warranties. All information entered into Vault is
produced by third party inspectors and their agents. THEREFORE, LIV SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS
ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY AS TO THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF ANY
INFORMATION ENTERED INTO VAULT BY EITHER CLIENT OR THIRD PARTY INSPECTORS. EXCEPT
AS SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 4, VAULT AND THE SERVICES ARE PROVIDED “AS IS” AND “WITH
ALL FAULTS” AND “AS AVAILABLE” AND LIV DOES NOT WARRANT THAT VAULT OR THE SERVICES
WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, TIMELY, SECURE, OR ERROR FREE. LIV MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS
OR WARRANTIES THAT VAULT OR THE SERVICES WILL PROVIDE ANY PARTICULAR RESULTS.
EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 4, LIV DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, WHETHER
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE, AND NONINFRINGEMENT. LIV’S SOLE LIABILITY FOR BREACH
OF THE WARRANTY SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 4, AND CLIENT’S SOLE REMEDY, IS THAT LIV WILL,
SUBJECT TO SECTION 11 AND SECTION 12, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD CLIENT HARMLESS FROM AND
AGAINST ANY LOSS, SUIT, DAMAGE, CLAIM, OR DEFENSE ARISING OUT OF BREACH OF THE
REPRESENTATION AND WARRANTY.

SECTION 5.     PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

       5.1     Proprietary Rights. LIV retains all right, title and interest in and to Vault, the
Services, any derivative works or modifications thereof (the “Derivative Works”), any
accompanying documentation, manuals or other materials used or supplied under this
Agreement or with respect to Vault, the Services, or any Derivative Works (the
“Documentation”), any reproductions works made thereof, and any other LIV IP (as that term is
defined in Section 6.1). Client shall not remove any product identification or notices of such
proprietary rights from Vault or the Services. Except for the limited use rights established under

MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 4
                                                                                   56428.0002.14325562.1
this Agreement, Client has no right, title, or interest in or to Vault, the Services, any Derivative
Works, the Documentation, or any other LIV IP.

        5.2     Use of Trademarks. During the Term, LIV may not, without Client’s prior written
consent, use Client’s trademarks or logos for any purpose, including promotional. Any
notification, letter, or other communication sent out with Client’s trademarks or logos shall only
be sent or transmitted by Client.

SECTION 6.     SOFTWARE AS A SERVICE TERMS AND CONDITIONS

       6.1     Definitions.

                6.1.1 “Aggregated Statistics” means data and information related to Client’s use
of Vault that is used by LIV in an aggregate and anonymized manner, including compiling
statistical and performance information related to the provision and operation of Vault.

               6.1.2 “Authorized User” means Client’s employees, consultants, contractors,
and agents as indicated on the Registration Form (i) who are authorized by Client to access and
use Vault under the rights granted to Client by this Agreement and (ii) for whom access to Vault
has been purchased under this Agreement. Third party inspectors shall not be considered
employees, agents, consultants or contractors of Client unless specifically designated in writing
by the City.

                  6.1.3 “Client Data” means, other than Aggregated Statistics, information, data,
and other content, in any form or medium, that is submitted, posted, or otherwise transmitted
by or on behalf of Client, a third party inspector, or an Authorized User through Vault, including
all fire safety inspection reports.

               6.1.4 “LIV IP” means Vault, the Documentation, and any intellectual property
provided to Client or any Authorized User in connection with the foregoing. LIV IP includes
Aggregated Statistics and any information, data, or other content derived from LIV’s monitoring
of Client’s access to or use of Vault, but does not include Client Data or fire safety inspection
reports.

               6.1.5 “Registration Form” means the order form filled out and submitted by or
on behalf of Client, and accepted by LIV, for Client’s access to Vault under this Agreement.

       6.2     Access and Use.

               6.2.1 Registration. In order to use Vault, Client must: (a) provide certain current,
complete, and accurate information about Client as prompted to do so by the Registration Form
order to enroll as a Vault user, as applicable; and (b) maintain and update such registration
information (“Registration Data”) as required to keep such information current, complete, and
accurate. If any Registration Data that Client provides is untrue, inaccurate, not current or
incomplete, LIV may terminate Client’s account and Client’s rights to use Vault.


MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 5
                                                                                   56428.0002.14325562.1
                6.2.2 Provision of Access. Subject to and conditioned on Client’s compliance
with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, LIV hereby grants Client a non-exclusive, non-
transferable right to access and use Vault during the Term, solely for use by Authorized Users in
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Such use is limited to Client’s
internal use. LIV shall provide to Client the necessary passwords and network links or connections
to allow Client to access Vault.

               6.2.3 Fees. There are no fees for access to and the use of the Vault.

                6.2.4 Documentation License. Subject to the terms and conditions contained in
this Agreement, LIV hereby grants to Client a non-exclusive, non-sublicensable, non-transferable
license to use the Documentation during the Term solely for Client’s internal business purposes
in connection with its use of Vault.

                 6.2.5 Use Restrictions. Client shall use Vault only for the benefit of Client, shall
use commercially reasonable efforts to prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of Vault, and
shall not use Vault for any purposes beyond the scope of the access granted in this Agreement.
Client shall not at any time, directly or indirectly, and shall not permit any Authorized Users to:
(i) copy, modify, or create derivative works of Vault or any Documentation, in whole or in part;
(ii) rent, lease, lend, sell, license, sublicense, assign, distribute, publish, transfer, or otherwise
make available Vault or the Documentation; (iii) reverse engineer, disassemble, decompile,
decode, adapt, or otherwise attempt to derive or gain access to any software component of
Vault, in whole or in part; (iv) remove any proprietary notices from Vault or the Documentation;
(v) use Vault or the Documentation in any manner or for any purpose that infringes,
misappropriates, or otherwise violates any person’s intellectual property or other rights, or that
violates any Law; (vi) interfere with or disrupt the integrity or performance of Vault or the
Services or any third-party data contained therein. Client shall not be liable and have no
obligations as to third party contractors that inspect, test and maintain fire protections systems
use of the Vault. Client shall be allowed to make hard and/or electric copies of any third-party
fire safety inspection reports and retain them for Client’s records and verification needs.

               6.2.6 Reservation of Rights. LIV reserves all rights not expressly granted to Client
in this Agreement. Except for the limited rights and licenses expressly granted under this
Agreement, nothing in this Agreement grants, by implication, waiver, estoppel, or otherwise, to
Client or any third party any intellectual property rights or other right, title, or interest in or to
the LIV IP.

             6.2.7 Data Storage. LIV shall not place any limit on the amount of memory or
other computer storage that Client may utilize through Vault. Client will not be charged any fees
for any memory or other computer storage Client may utilize through the Vault.

             6.2.8 Suspension. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement,
LIV may temporarily suspend Client’s and any Authorized User’s access to any portion or all of
Vault if:


MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 6
                                                                                    56428.0002.14325562.1
                         (a)     LIV reasonably determines that (i) there is a threat or attack on any
of the LIV IP; (ii) Client’s or any Authorized User’s use of the LIV IP disrupts or poses a security
risk to the LIV IP or to any other customer or vendor of LIV; (iii) Client, or any Authorized User, is
using the LIV IP for fraudulent or illegal activities; (iv) subject to Law, Client has ceased to continue
its business in the ordinary course, made an assignment for the benefit of creditors or similar
disposition of its assets, or become the subject of any bankruptcy, reorganization, liquidation,
dissolution, or similar proceeding; or (v) LIV’s provision of Vault to Client or any Authorized User
is prohibited by Law; or

                      (b)     Any vendor of LIV has suspended or terminated LIV’s access to or
use of any third-party services or products required to enable Client to access Vault; (any such
suspension described in subsections 6.2.8(a) and 6.2.8(b), a “Service Suspension”).

LIV will use commercially reasonable efforts to provide written notice of any Service Suspension
to Client and to provide updates regarding resumption of access to Vault following any Service
Suspension. LIV will use commercially reasonable efforts to resume providing access to Vault as
soon as reasonably possible after the event giving rise to the Service Suspension is cured. LIV will
have no liability for any damages, liabilities, losses (including any loss of data or profits), or any
other consequences that Client or any Authorized User may incur as a result of a Service
Suspension.

                6.2.9 Aggregated Statistics. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Agreement, LIV may monitor Client’s use of Vault and collect and compile Aggregated Statistics.
As between LIV and Client, all right, title, and interest in Aggregated Statistics, and all intellectual
property rights therein, belong to and are retained solely by LIV. Client acknowledges that LIV
may compile Aggregated Statistics based on Client Data input into Vault. LIV may (i) make
Aggregated Statistics publicly available in compliance with applicable Law, and (ii) use Aggregated
Statistics to the extent and in the manner permitted by Law; provided that such Aggregated
Statistics do not identify Client or Client’s Confidential Information.

                6.2.10 LIV Responsibilities and Uptime. LIV is responsible for the acquisition and
operation of all hardware, software, and network support related to Vault (other than those
required for Client to connect to the internet and access Vault). The technical and professional
activities required for establishing, managing, and maintaining the Vault environment are LIV’s
responsibilities. LIV will take all reasonable and necessary steps to make Vault, but does not
guarantee that Vault will be, available 24-7/365 (subject to maintenance downtime).

        6.3    Equitable Relief. Any breach or threatened breach by Client of any of its
obligations under Section 6.2.5 would cause LIV irreparable harm for which monetary damages
would not be an adequate remedy. As such, in the event of a breach or threatened breach of
Client’s obligations under Section 6.2.5, LIV will be entitled to equitable relief, including a
restraining order, an injunction, specific performance, and any other relief that may be available
from a court of competent jurisdiction within the State of Utah. Such remedies are in addition to
all other remedies that may be available at law, in equity or otherwise.


MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 7
                                                                                       56428.0002.14325562.1
        6.4     Client Responsibilities. Client is responsible and liable for all uses of Vault and any
Documentation resulting from access directly provided by Client. Without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, Client is responsible for all acts and omissions of Authorized Users, and any act
or omission by an Authorized User that would constitute a breach of this Agreement if taken by
Client will be deemed a breach of this Agreement by Client. Client shall use reasonable efforts to
make all Authorized Users aware of this Agreement’s provisions as applicable to such Authorized
User’s use of Vault, and shall cause Authorized Users to comply with such provisions.

        6.5    Termination and Suspension of Service. If this Agreement is terminated, LIV will
implement an orderly return of Client Data in a format readable and useable in Microsoft Excel
within 30 days, and shall subsequently securely dispose of Client Data. Client will be entitled to
any reasonable post-termination assistance required to ensure Client has received the Client
Data in a useable form. LIV shall securely dispose of all requested data in all of its forms, such as
disk, CD/DVD, backup tape, and paper, when requested by the Client. Data will be permanently
deleted and not be recoverable, according to National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST)-approved methods. LIV will provide certificates of destruction to Client upon request.

SECTION 7.      INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OWNERSHIP; FEEDBACK

       7.1      LIV IP. Client acknowledges that, as between Client and LIV, LIV owns all right, title,
and interest, including all intellectual property rights, in and to the LIV IP.

         7.2     Client Data. LIV acknowledges that, as between LIV and Client, Client owns all
right, title, and interest, including all intellectual property rights, in and to the Client Data. Client
hereby grants to LIV a non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide license to reproduce, distribute,
and otherwise use and display the Client Data, and perform all acts with respect to the Client
Data, as may be necessary for the limited purpose of LIV providing to Client the Services as set
forth in this Agreement.

        7.3     Feedback. If Client or any of its employees or contractors sends or transmits any
communications or materials to LIV by mail, email, telephone, or otherwise, suggesting or
recommending changes to the LIV IP, including new features or functionality relating thereto, or
any comments, questions, suggestions, or the like (“Feedback”), LIV is free to use such Feedback
irrespective of any other obligation or limitation between the parties governing such Feedback.
Client hereby assigns to LIV on Client’s behalf, and on behalf of its employees, contractors, and
agents, all right, title, and interest in, and LIV is free to use, without any attribution or
compensation to any party, any ideas, know-how, concepts, techniques, or other intellectual
property rights contained in the Feedback, for any purpose whatsoever, although LIV is not
required to use any Feedback.

SECTION 8.      CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

       8.1     Definition. From time to time during the Term, one party may disclose or make
available to the other information about the disclosing party’s business affairs, products,
confidential intellectual property, trade secrets, third-party confidential information, and other

MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 8
                                                                                       56428.0002.14325562.1
sensitive or proprietary information, whether orally or in written, electronic, or other form or
media, and whether or not marked, designated or otherwise identified as “confidential”
(collectively, “Confidential Information”). Confidential Information does not include information
that, at the time of disclosure is: (a) in the public domain; (b) known to the receiving party at the
time of disclosure, as demonstrated by the receiving party’s written records; (c) rightfully
obtained by the receiving party on a non-confidential basis from a third party; or (d)
independently developed by the receiving party without reliance on the disclosing party’s
Confidential Information.

       8.2     Nondisclosure and Nonuse.

               8.2.1 The receiving party shall not disclose the disclosing party’s Confidential
Information to any person or entity, except to the receiving party’s employees who have a need
to know the Confidential Information for the receiving party to exercise its rights or perform its
obligations under this Agreement. Further, the receiving party shall not, without the disclosing
party’s prior written permission use Confidential Information for purposes other than internal
evaluation for so long as the Confidential Information must be maintained confidential, or
analyze, disassemble for reverse engineering, or otherwise attempt to identify the intrinsic
nature of any of the disclosing party’s Confidential Information.

                 8.2.2 Notwithstanding the foregoing, the receiving party may disclose
Confidential Information to the limited extent required (i) in order to comply with the order of a
court or other governmental body, or as otherwise necessary to comply with applicable law; or
(ii) to establish the receiving party’s rights under this Agreement, including to make required
court filings.

                 8.2.3 On the expiration or termination of the Agreement, the receiving party
shall promptly return to the disclosing party all copies, whether in written, electronic, or other
form or media, of the disclosing party’s Confidential Information, or destroy all such copies and
certify in writing to the disclosing party that such Confidential Information has been destroyed.

               8.2.4 The parties’ respective obligations of non-disclosure and non-use with
regard to Confidential Information are effective as of the Effective Date and will expire five years
from the date of each disclosure of Confidential Information to the receiving party; provided,
however, with respect to any Confidential Information that constitutes a trade secret (as
determined under applicable Law), such obligations of non-disclosure will survive the
termination or expiration of this Agreement for as long as such Confidential Information remains
subject to trade secret protection under Law.

       8.3     Breach; Equitable Relief. Each party acknowledges and agrees that a breach or
threatened breach by a party of any of its obligations under this Section 8 would cause the non-
breaching party irreparable harm for which monetary damages would not be an adequate
remedy and agrees that, in the event of such breach or threatened breach, the non-breaching
party will be entitled to equitable relief, including a restraining order, an injunction, specific
performance and any other relief that may be available from a court of competent jurisdiction

MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 9
                                                                                   56428.0002.14325562.1
within the State of Utah. Such remedies are not exclusive and are in addition to all other remedies
that may be available at law, in equity or otherwise.

SECTION 9.     STAFFING; WORK SITES; LAWS

       9.1    Staffing. LIV is responsible for supplying its employees to perform the Services,
and for supervising and directing those employees. LIV will ensure that its employees are
reasonably competent and experienced to perform the Services. If, at any time during the
performance of this Agreement Client finds that the performance of LIV’s employees or
subcontractors is unsatisfactory, Client may object to the assignment of such employee or
subcontractor, and LIV shall assign another of its employees or subcontractors to perform the
Services.

       9.2     Compliance with Health, Safety, and Environmental Regulations. LIV and its
employees will comply in all material respects with all applicable Laws in the performance of the
Services, including those promulgated by the Client and by the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA).

SECTION 10. INSURANCE. During the Term, LIV, at its cost and expense, shall purchase and
maintain the insurance set forth in this Section 10. Coverage must be provided by companies
qualified to do business in the State of Utah.

        10.1 Workers’ Compensation and Employers’ Liability. Workers’ Compensation
insurance must be provided as required by all applicable state laws. Employers’ Liability insurance
must be provided in amounts of at least $100,000 each accident for bodily injury by accident;
$500,000 policy limit for bodily injury by disease; and $100,000 for each employee for bodily
injury by disease.

         10.2 Commercial General Liability. LIV will obtain and maintain a Commercial General
Liability (Occurrence) policy, which policy shall include coverage for premises and operations,
products and completed operations, contractual liability, broad form property damage, and
personal injury liability. The policy must have a combined single limit for bodily injury and
property damage of $1,000,000 each occurrence; $1,000,000 for personal injury liability; and
$2,000,000 general aggregate.

       10.3 Insurance Certificate. Upon request, LIV will provide Client with a certificate
evidencing the required insurance coverages.

        10.4 Notice of Policy Changes. The insurance policies required under this section must
all provide that they will not be terminated, cancelled, or allowed to expire without 30 days’ prior
written notice to the insured. If so notified, LIV will notify Client of the change, timely procure
replacement coverage, and provide a replacement certificate to Client.




MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 10
                                                                                   56428.0002.14325562.1
SECTION 11. INDEMNIFICATION

        11.1 LIV’s Indemnification Obligations. To the extent of its negligence or willful
misconduct, LIV shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Client and Client’s officers, directors,
volunteers, elected officials, appointed officials, employees, agents, and representatives (each, a
“Client Indemnitee”) from and against all losses, damages, liabilities, costs (including reasonable
attorneys’ fees) (“Losses”) arising out of or resulting from any third-party claim, suit, action or
proceeding (each, a “Third-Party Action”) and caused by any intentional act, omission, or
negligence of LIV, its agents, employees, officers, partners, or subcontractors; provided however
that LIV is not required to indemnify, defend, or hold harmless any Client Indemnitee for that
portion of any claim, loss, or damaged due to the fault of the Client Indmenitee.

                 11.1.2 Intellectual Property Indemnification. LIV will indemnify, defend, and hold
harmless the Client Indemnitees from and against any Third-Party Action that alleges Vault or the
Services, or any use of the Vault or the Services in accordance with this Agreement, infringes or
misappropriates such third-party’s US patents, copyrights, or trade secrets. However, this
Section 11.1.2 will not apply to the extent that the alleged infringement arises from: (a) use of
Vault or Services in combination with data, software, hardware, equipment, or technology not
provided by LIV or authorized by LIV in writing; (b) modifications to Vault or Services not made
by LIV; or (c) Client Data.

       11.2 Client’s Liability. Client shall not be required to indemnify or hold LIV harmless
against liabilities arising from this Agreement. However, as between Client and LIV, and to the
extent permitted by law and legally available funds, Client is responsible for and shall bear the
risk of loss for, shall pay directly, and shall defend against any and all claims, liabilities,
proceedings, actions, expenses, damages or losses arising under or related to:

              11.2.1 Any Losses arising out of or related to Client’s breach of any of Client’s
representations, warranties, or obligations under this Agreement; and

               11.2.2 Any Losses awarded against LIV in a final judgment and arising out of or
resulting from any Third-Party Action:

                     (a)      For bodily injury, death of any person or damage to real or tangible,
personal property resulting from Client’s grossly negligent or willful acts or omissions;

                      (b)     Based on Client’s or any Authorized User’s (i) use of Vault or the
Services in combination with data, software, hardware, equipment, or technology not provided
by LIV or authorized by LIV in writing, or (ii) modifications to Vault or the Services not made by
LIV.

       11.3 Indemnification Procedures. The party seeking indemnification under this
Agreement must promptly notify the indemnifying party in writing of any Action and cooperate
with the indemnifying party at the indemnifying party’s sole cost and expense. The indemnifying
party shall immediately take control of the defense and investigation of such Action and shall


MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 11
                                                                                  56428.0002.14325562.1
employ counsel of its choice to handle and defend that Action, at the indemnifying party’s sole
cost and expense. The indemnifying party shall not settle any Action in a manner that adversely
affects the rights of the indemnified party without the indemnified party’s prior written consent,
which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. The indemnified party’s failure to perform
any obligations under this Section 11.3 will not relieve the indemnifying party of its obligations
under this Section 11.3 unless, and then solely to the extent that, the indemnifying party can
demonstrate that it has been materially prejudiced as a result of such failure. The indemnified
party may participate in and observe the proceedings at its own cost and expense.

        11.4 Infringement Remedy. If a Third-Party Action that would entitle Client to
indemnification under Section 11.1.2 is made or appears possible, Client shall permit LIV, at LIV’s
sole discretion, to (a) modify or replace Vault or the Services, or component or part thereof, to
make it non-infringing, or (b) obtain the right for Client to continue to use the item in question.
If LIV determines that neither alternative is reasonably available, LIV may terminate this
Agreement, either in its entirety or with respect to the affected component or part, effective
immediately on written notice to Client. SECTION 11.1.2 AND THIS SECTION 11.4 SET FORTH
CLIENT’S SOLE REMEDIES AND LIV’S SOLE LIABILITY AND OBLIGATION FOR ANY ACTUAL,
THREATENED, OR ALLEGED CLAIM THAT VAULT OR THE SERVICES INFRINGE, MISAPPROPRIATE,
OR OTHERWISE VIOLATE ANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF ANY THIRD PARTY. LIV’S
LIABILITY UNDER SECTION 11.1.2 AND THIS SECTION 11.4 IS SUBJECT TO THE LIABILITY LIMITS
SET FORTH IN SECTION 12.

SECTION 12. ASSUMPTION OF RISK; LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

         12.1 Risks Inherent to Internet. Client acknowledges that: (a) the Internet is a
worldwide network of computers; (b) communication on the Internet may not be secure; (c) the
Internet is beyond LIV’s control; and (d) LIV does not own, operate or manage the Internet. Client
also acknowledges that there are inherent risks associated with using Vault and the Services,
including the risk of breach of security, the risk of exposure to computer viruses and the risk of
interception, distortion, or loss of communications. Client assumes the general risks arising from
utilization of the internet knowingly and voluntarily. Without limiting the foregoing, Client hereby
assumes the risk of, and LIV will have no responsibility or liability of any kind under this
Agreement for: (1) errors in Vault or the Services resulting from misuse, negligence, revision,
modification, or improper use of all or any part of Vault or the Services by any entity other than
LIV or its authorized representatives, employees, contractors, or consultants; (2) Client’s use of
any version of Vault other than the then-current unmodified version provided to Client; (3)
Client’s failure to timely or correctly install any updates to Vault; (4) problems caused by
connecting or failure to connect to the Internet; (5) failure to provide and maintain the technical
and connectivity configurations for the use and operation of Vault that meet LIV’s recommended
requirements; (6) nonconformities resulting from or problems to or caused by non-LIV products
or services; or (7) data or data input, output, accuracy, and suitability, which will be deemed to
be under Client’s exclusive control. The assumption of risk stated in clause (1) of the preceding
sentence will only apply if LIV has taken commercially reasonable steps to prevent and safeguard
against the types of errors listed in that clause (1).


MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 12
                                                                                   56428.0002.14325562.1
       12.2 Exclusion of Certain Damages; Limitation of Liability. IN NO EVENT WILL LIV BE
LIABLE UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT UNDER ANY LEGAL OR EQUITABLE
THEORY, INCLUDING BREACH OF CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), STRICT LIABILITY,
AND OTHERWISE, FOR ANY: (a) CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, EXEMPLARY, SPECIAL,
ENHANCED, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES; (b) INCREASED COSTS, DIMINUTION IN VALUE OR LOST
BUSINESS, PRODUCTION, REVENUES, OR PROFITS; (c) LOSS OF GOODWILL OR REPUTATION; (d)
USE, INABILITY TO USE, LOSS, INTERRUPTION, DELAY OR RECOVERY OF ANY DATA, OR BREACH
OF DATA OR SYSTEM SECURITY; OR (e) COST OF REPLACEMENT GOODS OR SERVICES, IN EACH
CASE REGARDLESS OF WHETHER LIV WAS ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSSES OR
DAMAGES OR SUCH LOSSES OR DAMAGES WERE OTHERWISE FORESEEABLE.

        12.3 Exceptions. The exclusions and limitations in Section 12.2 do not apply to: (a)
damages or other liabilities arising out of or relating to a party’s failure to comply with its
obligations under Section 8 (Confidential Information); (b) damages or other liabilities arising out
of or relating to a party’s willful misconduct or intentional acts; (c) Third-Party Actions for death
or bodily injury or damage to real or tangible personal property resulting from a party’s willful or
grossly negligent acts or omissions; and (d) a party’s obligation to pay attorneys’ fees and court
costs in accordance with Section 14.5.

SECTION 13. FORCE MAJEURE

        13.1 Neither party will be liable or responsible to the other party, nor be deemed to
have defaulted under or breached this Agreement, for any failure or delay in fulfilling or
performing any term of this Agreement (except for any obligations to make payments to the
other party hereunder), when and to the extent such failure or delay is caused by or results from
acts beyond the affected party’s reasonable control, including (a) acts of God; (b) flood, fire or
explosion; (c) war, invasion, riot or other civil unrest; (d) actions, embargoes or blockades in
effect on or after the date of this Agreement; (e) national, regional, or local emergency; (f) strikes,
labor stoppages or slowdowns or other industrial disturbances; (g) compliance with any law or
governmental order, rule, regulation or direction, or any action taken by a governmental or public
authority, including imposing an embargo, export or import restriction, quota or other restriction
or prohibition, or failing to grant a necessary license or consent; (h) shortage of adequate power
or telecommunications or transportation facilities; (i) pandemic, epidemic, quarantine, or other
health directive; or (j) any other event that is beyond the reasonable control of such party (each
of the foregoing, a “Force Majeure Event”).

        13.2 A party whose performance is affected by a Force Majeure Event must give notice
to the other party, stating the period of time the occurrence is expected to continue and must
use diligent efforts to end the failure or delay and minimize the effects of such Force Majeure
Event. The non-affected party may terminate this Agreement if such failure or delay continues
for a period of 60 days or more and, if the non-affected party is the Client, receive a refund of
any amounts paid to the LIV in advance for the affected Services. .




MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 13
                                                                                     56428.0002.14325562.1
SECTION 14. MISCELLANEOUS

         14.1 Notices. All notices permitted or required under this Agreement must be in writing
and may be delivered (i) in person, with the date of notice being the date of personal delivery;
(ii) by U.S. Mail, postage prepaid for certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, with
the date of notice being three days following the date of the postmark on the return receipt; (iii)
by nationally recognized delivery service such as Federal Express, with the date of notice being
the date of delivery as shown on the confirmation provided by the delivery service; (iv) by e-mail,
with confirmation of sending of the e-mail and a copy of the e-mail dispatched the same day by
one of the methods in clauses (ii) and (iii), with the date of notice being the date of the e-mail.
Notices must be addressed to the following addresses, or such other address as one party shall
provide the other parties:

               To LIV:         Life Safety Inspection Vault LLC
                               Attn.: Manager
                               146 East Chubbuck Road, Suite C
                               Chubbuck, ID 83202
                               Phone: (208) 254-7718
                               E-mail: Cole.harding@livsafe.com

               To Client:      Murray City Corporation
                               Attn.: Fire Chief Joseph Mittelman
                               4848 South Box Elder Street
                               Murray, Utah 84107
                               Phone: 801-264-2708
                               Email: jmittelman@murray.utah.gov

         14.2 Interpretation. Headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and will not
affect its meaning. For purposes of this Agreement, (a) the word “or” is not exclusive; and (b) the
words “herein,” “hereof,” “hereby,” “hereto,” and “hereunder” refer to this Agreement as a
whole. This Agreement must be construed simply according to its fair meaning and without
regard to any presumption or rule requiring construction or interpretation against the party
drafting an instrument or causing any instrument to be drafted. Exhibits other documents
referred to in this Agreement (if any) must be construed with, and as an integral part of, this
Agreement to the same extent as if they were set forth verbatim in the body of this Agreement.

        14.3 Amendment and Modification; Waiver. No amendment to or modification of this
Agreement is effective unless it is in writing and signed by an authorized representative of each
Party. No waiver by any Party of any of the provisions hereof will be effective unless explicitly set
forth in writing and signed by the Party so waiving. No waiver by either party of any default in
performance by the other party, or any waiver by either party of any breach, or series of
breaches, of any of the terms, covenants, or conditions of this Agreement will constitute a waiver
of any subsequent breach of any such terms, covenants, or conditions.



MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 14
                                                                                   56428.0002.14325562.1
        14.4 Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal, or unenforceable
in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality, or unenforceability will not affect any other term or
provision of this Agreement or invalidate or render unenforceable such term or provision in any
other jurisdiction. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal, or
unenforceable, the parties will negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect
their original intent as closely as possible in a mutually acceptable manner in order that the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement will be consummated as originally contemplated
to the greatest extent possible.

        14.5 Choice of Law; Attorneys’ Fees. The parties intend for this Agreement to be
goverened solely by the laws of the State of Utah. Any action arising from this Agreement shall
be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the State of Utah. Exclusive venue shall be in
Salt Lake County, in the Third Judicial District Court for Salt Lake City. The parties specifically
exclude the application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale
of Goods. The prevailing party in any proceeding will be entitled to recover in any judgment its
reasonable attorneys’ fees as may be allowed by the court, together with such court costs and
damages as may be provided by Law.

         14.6 Assignment. Neither Client nor LIV may assign any of its rights or delegate any of
its obligations under this Agreement, in each case whether voluntarily, involuntarily, by operation
of law or otherwise, without the other party’s prior written consent, which consent may not be
unreasonably withheld, delayed, or conditioned. Any purported assignment or delegation in
violation of this Section 14.6 is void. No assignment or delegation will relieve the assigning or
delegating party of any of its obligations under this Agreement. This Agreement is binding upon
and inures to the benefit of the parties and their respective permitted successors and assigns.

       14.7 US Government Rights. Each of the Documentation and the software components
that constitute Vault and the Services is a “commercial item” as that term is defined at 48 C.F.R.
§ 2.101, consisting of “commercial computer software” and “commercial computer software
documentation” as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. § 12.212. Accordingly, if Client is an agency
of the US Government or any contractor therefor, Client only receives those rights with respect
to Vault, the Services, and the Documentation as are granted to all other end users, in accordance
with (a) 48 C.F.R. § 227.7201 through 48 C.F.R. § 227.7204, with respect to the Department of
Defense and its contractors, or (b) 48 C.F.R. § 12.212, with respect to all other US Government
users and their contractors.

        14.8 Entire Agreement and Conflict of Terms. This Agreement is the entire agreement
between the Parties and superscedes any prior and contemporaneous agreement and
understanding between the Parties, whether oral or written. LIV terms and conditios (if any)
must be attached to this Agreement. No other terms or conditions will apply to this Agreement,
including terms listed or referenced on LIV’s website, quotation/sales orders, purchase orders,
or invoices. In the event of any conflict in the Agreement terms and conditions, the order of
precedence is: (i) this Agreement; and (b) and Terms and Conditions attached to this Agreement.



MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 15
                                                                                     56428.0002.14325562.1
        14.9 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts,
each of which will be deemed an original, and all of which constitute the same Agreement.
Delivery of an executed counterpart signature page of this Agreement by electronic means
intended to preserve the original graphic and pictorial appearance of a document, has the same
effect as delivery of an executed original of this Agreement.

          The parties are signing this Agreement as of the Effective Date.

 LIFE SAFETY INSPECTION VAULT LLC,                                          ,
 an Idaho limited liability company                 a municipal corporation of
                                                    the State of


 By:                                                By:

 Name:                                              Name:

 Title:                                             Title:




MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT - 16
                                                                                 56428.0002.14325562.1
Discussion
 Item #2
                                   DĂǇŽƌΖƐKĨĨŝĐĞ

                                   Interlocal Agreement with Murray
                                   School District for lease of property

                                   Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗February 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Consider Agreement to lease property at 73 West 6100 South for
Mayor Brett Hales        early childhood education and Head Start programs
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider approval of Resolution and Agreement
801-264-2600
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Resolution and Interlocal Agreement
Doug Hill

                    Budget Impact
                         n/a


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        Extend the lease with the Murray School District and Utah
Presentation             Community Action for use of city-owned buildings located at 73
                         West 6100 South for early childhood education and Head Start
5 Minutes                programs. The lease is for one year and shall automatically
Is This Time             renew on a yearly basis unless terminated as provided in the
                         Agreement.
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
February 3, 2023
                           RESOLUTION NO. ___________

      A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION
      AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY AND MURRAY CITY SCHOOL
      DISTRICT (“DISTRICT”) FOR THE LICENSE AND ACCESS TO A
      CITY COMMUNICATION TOWER

       WHEREAS, Title 11, Chapter 13, of the Utah Code, provides that two or more
public agencies may enter into an agreement with one another for joint or cooperative
actions; and

      WHEREAS, the City and the District are “public agencies” as contemplated in
Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101, et seq. – Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

      WHEREAS, the District and the City have beneficially entered into cooperative
agreements for various projects; and

      WHEREAS, THE City and the District have developed a long-term relationship of
cooperation and sharing of resources to do what is in the best interest of the
community; and

       WHEREAS, City owns a communications tower (“Tower”) on real property the
City owns at 5624 South 300 West; and

       WHEREAS, the City has been approached by the District concerning the use of
the Tower in order to increase the District’s ability to provide wireless high-speed
internet capability to its students as part of District’s LTE broadband network;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council as
follows:

      1.     It hereby approves the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement, in substantially
             the form attached hereto.

      2.     The Interlocal Cooperation Agreement is in the best interest of the
             City.

      3.     Mayor Brett A. Hales is hereby authorized to execute the Agreement on
             behalf of City and act in accordance with its terms.

      PASSED AND APPROVED this ____ day of ________________, 2023

                                        MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                ______________________________
                                Garry Hrechkosy, Chair


ATTEST



_____________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                             INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT
                  Between Murray City Corporation and the Murray School District
                          for lease of City property at 73 West 6100 South

        This Lease Agreement is made this ____ day of ________________, 2023 (the
“Effective Date”), by and between Murray City Corporation, a municipal corporation of the State
of Utah (“City”) and Utah Community Action Head Start Program and the Murray School
District (collectively, “Tenants”; individually “Head Start” and “District”, respectively).

                                          RECITALS

        WHEREAS, the City and District are public agencies authorized by the Utah Interlocal
Cooperation Act, Title 11, Chapter 13 of the Utah Code, to enter into agreements with each other
for the joint and cooperative action which will enable them to make the most efficient use of
their powers on a basis of mutual advantage; and

       WHEREAS, in 2017 the parties entered into a lease agreement for City owned property
located at 73 West 6100 South in Murray, Utah (the “Property”); and

       WHEREAS, the 2017 lease agreement was entered to provide Head Start space in which
to operate a community service program geared to the educational needs of low-income children
and their families and to provide District space in which to provide educational and recreational
opportunities to City residents generally; and

        WHEREAS, the 2017 lease agreement provided for a term of five (5) years, with no
option for renewal; and

       WHEREAS, the term of the 2017 lease agreement has passed; and

       WHEREAS, based on the actions of the parties since the expiration of the 2017 lease
agreement, it was their intention to enter another lease agreement in order to extend the
arrangement; and

       WHEREAS, by continuing to adhere to the terms of the 2017 lease agreement, the parties
have created an implied-Agreement-in-fact; and

       WHEREAS, the parties want to enter into a new formal agreement to extend the lease
arrangements under the 2017 lease agreement and to allow for renewals of the lease;


        NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, the
parties agree as follows:

                                        AGREEMENT

   1. GRANT OF LEASE OF PROPERTY

                                                                                         Page 1 of 6
   City leases to Tenants for their use, portions of the Property (“Tenants’ Premises”) as
   determined by the City’s Chief Administrative Officer (“CAO”). The CAO’s
   determination of what portions of the Property are to be used by Tenants is attached
   hereto as Exhibit A. No other portions of the Property will be used by Tenants unless first
   approved in writing by the CAO.

2. SCHEDULE
   Generally, District shall have the nonexclusive right to use the Tenant’s Premises and
   Property for the duration of this Agreement subject to the following uses by the City and
   District:
           - City shall exclusively use that portion of the Property known as the “East
              Bay” from April 1st through August 31st of each year.

           -   District shall have the nonexclusive right to use the East Bay from September
               1st through March 31st of each year as determined by the CAO.

           -   Maximum flexibility shall be allowed by the City in the scheduling and use of
               the Property keeping in mind that the policy of this Agreement is to allow use
               of the Property by the parties in the following priority:

                  o First Priority:             City

                  o Second Priority:            District

                  o Third Priority:             Head Start

   The parties are encouraged to cooperate with each other in working out any other times
   of use of the Property not specifically defined in this section.

3. TERM OF LEASE
   The term of this lease shall be one year from the Effective Date, and shall automatically
   renew on a yearly basis unless terminated as provided in this Agreement.

4. CONSIDERATION
   A.      In addition to the covenants and agreements described herein, District and Head
   Start shall do the following:

       1) Improve the Tenants’ Premises at their sole cost and expense;

       2) Maintain and operate their respective programs at their sole cost and expense for
          the use of qualifying residents of the City;

       3) Assume and be responsible for all expenses and liabilities related to the operation
          of Tenants’ Premises for the purposes stated in this Agreement, including repair
          and maintenance of the HVAC and heating systems;


                                                                                     Page 2 of 6
        4) Provide janitorial services for the restrooms and other intensive janitorial services
           to the Tenants’ Premises they utilize, except that City shall be responsible for
           janitorial services of the East Bay when used by the City;

        5) Keep the Tenants’ Premises in a sanitary condition and shall be responsible for
           the abuse and destruction of the Tenants’ Premises not due to ordinary wear and
           tear that occurs during the hours they operate their respective programs; and

        6) Remove all equipment, toys, furniture, and other such property from the East Bay
           between April 1st and August 31st of each year, unless permission is given to them
           from City to allow such equipment to remain.

   B.      The City shall be responsible for any damage caused by its use of the Property.

5. UTILITIES
   District and Head Start shall pay utility costs such as heat, water, gas and electricity at no
   cost to the City.

6. USE OF LEASED PREMISES
   A. The Tenants’ Premises are to be used solely for the operation of District and Head
      Start programs.

   B. Tenants may not sub-lease the Tenants’ Premises without City’s written consent.

   C. Head Start acknowledges that it will not be the only organization using the Property.
      Accordingly, the needs of the community shall be given consideration in the planning
      of Tenants’ programs and in the scheduling of the use of the Tenants’ Premises and in
      the scheduling of the remaining portion of any unused space at the Property and
      therefor, the Parties agree that meetings shall be held at reasonable intervals between
      representatives of the City and Tenants to facilitate mutual cooperation, effective
      scheduling of both the Tenants’ Premises and the Property and make possible regular
      reexamination of the effectiveness of the use of the Tenants’ Premises for Tenants’
      programs.

   D. City shall retain the right to schedule the Property for use not in conflict with the
      provisions of this lease. Scheduling conflicts or other conflicts arising out of or
      associated with the use of the Tenants’ Premises or Property shall be resolved by the
      CAO.

   E. The City will furnish and supply all expendable materials necessary to conduct City
      events, unless otherwise agreed. Likewise, the Tenants will furnish and supply all
      expendable materials necessary to conduct Tenant events, unless otherwise agreed.

7. PARKING
   A. The parties, their authorized employees and participants shall have the nonexclusive
      right to all available parking at the Property for the duration of this Agreement.

                                                                                         Page 3 of 6
   B. City does not warrant that parking spacers will be available to the Tenants at any
      specific time, and the Tenants acknowledge that at certain times, parking may in fact
      not be available to them due to the events occurring in the City Park or elsewhere
      near the Property.

8. CONFLICT RESOLUTION
   Any conflict arising between the parties or any other organization regarding the
   scheduling or any use of the Property or Tenants’ Premises shall be resolved by meeting
   with the CAO.

9. ASSIGNMENT
   This lease may not be assigned in whole or in part by any party without the written
   consent of the other parties.

10. IMPROVEMENTS
       A. Tenants shall have the rights to make improvements in the Tenants’ Premises,
          such as replacing carpets, painting, etc., for purposes stated in this Agreement, at
          Tenants’ sole cost and expense. Any improvements shall be made in conformity
          with all applicable statutes and ordinances, including planning and zoning
          regulations and building codes, and shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
          manner. Tenants shall comply with any conditions imposed by the Murray City
          Planning Commission upon their respective organizations, including without
          limitation, compliance with refuse siting standards and striping parking stalls.

       B. Prior to making any improvement in the Tenants’ Premises, Tenants shall submit
          plans for review and comment to the CAO.

       C. It is expressly understood and agreed that at the expiration or termination of this
          lease, all improvements attached to the Tenants’ Premises shall be a part of the
          Property and shall so remain at the Property. None of said improvements may be
          removed from the Property by Tenants, and are to remain and become property of
          the City, unless otherwise agreed in writing.

11. NEGLIGENCE
    It will be the responsibility of the District to maintain the Tenants’ Premises and repair
    any property, including permanent fixtures, such as air conditioning units, doors, etc.,
    resulting from Tenants’ use or negligence.

12. INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE
    Tenants agree to save, indemnify and hold City harmless from any and all damages,
    claims or lawsuits which may arise during the term of this lease out of the Tenants’
    improvements, maintenance, use of Tenants’ Premises or the Property, operation of
    Tenants’ programs and/or their occupancy of the Tenants’ Premises or the Property.
    Additionally, Tenants agree to name City as an additional insured on all liability
    insurance policies which relate to the Tenants’ Premises or the Property, and to file with

                                                                                        Page 4 of 6
   the City Recorder a certificate of such insurance. The limits of the required insurance
   must meet the CAO’s approval. At a minimum, during the term of this lease, Tenants
   shall, at their sole cost and expense, keep the Tenants’ Premises insured, on forms and in
   companies satisfactory to the City, for the benefit of City and Tenants, as their respective
   interests may appear, in an amount equal to not less than the full insurable value against
   loss or damage by fire or other hazards ordinarily covered by fire and extended coverage
   insurance policies. During the term of this lease, Tenants shall also, at their sole cost and
   expense, maintain public liability insurance, on forms and in companies satisfactory to
   City, against claims for personal injury, death, or property damage occurring upon, in or
   about the Tenants’ Premises or Property, and on, in or about the adjoining streets and
   passageways, such insurance to afford protection to the limit of not less than One Million
   Dollars in respect to injury to or death of a single person, and not less than One Million
   Dollars in respect to any one accident, and to the limit of not less than One Million
   Dollars in respect to property damage for one accident.

   Tenants shall maintain such insurance as will protect them from claims under State
   Workers’ Compensation insurance laws and shall file with the City Recorder a certificate
   of such insurance.

13. CANCELLATION OR TERMINATION
    This lease agreement may be cancelled or terminated for any reason by any party upon
    giving to the other parties ninety (90) days written notice of its intention to cancel or
    terminate.

14. COSTS OF ENFORCEMENT
    In the event of default of one of the parties of the agreement hereto, it is agreed that the
    non-defaulting party shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of court
    incurred in the enforcement of this Agreement.




                                 [Signature Page to Follow]




                                                                                          Page 5 of 6
      DATED as of that date written above.


MURRAY CITY CORPORATION                      MURRAY CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT


______________________________               __________________________________
Brett A. Hales, Mayor                        Jennifer Covington, Superintendent

ATTEST:                                      APPROVED AS TO FORM AND
                                             LEGALITY


______________________________               __________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder                  (Signature)

                                             __________________________________
                                             (Printed Name and Title)



APPROVED AS TO FORM AND
LEGALITY                                     UTAH COMMUNITY ACTION HEAD
                                             START PROGRAM

_______________________________              __________________________________
G.L. Critchfield, City Attorney              (Signature)

                                             _________________________________
                                             (Printed Name and Title)




                                                                          Page 6 of 6
Discussion
 Item #3
                                    Mayor's Office

                                    Interlocal Agreement with Murray
                                    School District for use of cell tower

                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗February 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Consider approval of Agreement to allow Murray School District
Mayor Brett Hales        to use city owned communication tower at 5624 South 300 West
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider approval of Resolution and Agreement
801-264-2600
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Resolution and Agreement
Doug Hill

                    Budget Impact
                         none


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        The Murray School District wants to provide its students better
Presentation             access to their LTE broadband network. The District wants to
                         place equipment on the city-owned cell tower to do this.
5 Minutes

Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
February 3, 2023         Any additional space needed is available on second page.
                           RESOLUTION NO. ___________


             A   RESOLUTION  APPROVING      AN   INTERLOCAL
             COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY AND
             MURRAY CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT (“DISTRICT”) FOR THE
             LICENSE AND ACCESS TO A CITY COMMUNICATION
             TOWER


       WHEREAS, Title 11, Chapter 13, of the Utah Code, provides that two or more
public agencies may enter into an agreement with one another for joint or cooperative
actions; and

      WHEREAS, the City and the District are “public agencies” as contemplated in
Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101, et seq. – Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

      WHEREAS, the District and the City have beneficially entered into cooperative
agreements for various projects; and

      WHEREAS, THE City and the District have developed a long-term relationship of
cooperation and sharing of resources to do what is in the best interest of the
community; and

       WHEREAS, City owns a communications tower (“Tower”) on real property the
City owns at 5624 South 300 West; and

       WHEREAS, the City has been approached by the District concerning the use of
the Tower in order to increase the District’s ability to provide wireless high-speed
internet capability to its students as part of District’s LTE broadband network;


       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council as
follows:

      1. It hereby approves the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement, in substantially the
         form attached hereto; and

      2. The Interlocal Cooperation Agreement is in the best interest of the City; and

      3. Mayor Brett A. Hales is hereby authorized to execute the Agreement on
         behalf of City and act in accordance with its terms.
PASSED AND APPROVED this ____ day of ________________, 2023


                                  MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                  ___________________________________
                                  Gary Hrechkosy, Chair



ATTEST



_____________________________
Jennifer Kennedy, City Recorder
         TOWER ANTENNA LICENSE AND ACCESS AGREEMENT
               Between Murray City Corporation and Murray City School District


       This Agreement is made and entered into this ____ day of __________________, 2023,
by and between Murray City Corporation (“City”), a municipal corporation of the state of Utah,
and Murray City School District (“District”), a political subdivision of the state of Utah.

                                           RECITALS

        WHEREAS, the City and District are public agencies authorized by the Utah Interlocal
Cooperation Act, Title 11, Chapter 13 of the Utah Code, to enter into agreements with each other
for the joint and cooperative action which will enable them to make the most efficient use of
their powers on a basis of mutual advantage; and

       WHEREAS, the City and District have developed a long-term relationship of cooperation
and sharing of resources to do what is in the best interest of the community; and

      WHEREAS, the City owns a communications tower (the “Tower”) on property it owns at
5624 South 300 West in Murray, Utah; and

        WHEREAS, the Tower and the property upon which it is located are and shall remain
solely the property of the City; and

        WHEREAS, the City has been approached by the District concerning the use of the
City’s Tower in order to increase the District’s ability to provide wireless high-speed internet
capability to its students as part of its educational LTE broadband network; and

       WHEREAS, the District wants to install, remove, replace, maintain and operate, at its
expense, a wireless broadband service system facility, including mounting antennas, fixtures,
equipment and necessary appurtenances on and near the Tower (collectively, the “Equipment”);
and

       WHEREAS, by increasing its LTE broadband network capacity, District will help
improve the educational opportunities and wellbeing of Murray City school children and their
families; and

       WHEREAS, in the interest of providing the best service with the least possible
expenditure of public funds, the City and District want to enter into this Agreement subject to the
following terms and conditions;

        NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, conditions and promises
contained herein and in reliance thereon, and pursuant to the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act
(section 11-13-1 et seq, of the Utah Code), it is agreed by and between the parties as follows:
                                      AGREEMENT

1. License. The City grants a non-exclusive, revocable license to District to install, operate
   and maintain Equipment on the City’s Tower located at 5624 South 300 West in Murray,
   Utah. The Equipment shall be solely for District’s own LTE broadband network. District
   shall not use the Tower to connect with other telecommunication providers without the
   prior written consent of the City, which consent may be withheld in the City’s sole
   discretion.

2. Use. District may use space on the Tower to install, operate and maintain Equipment so
   long as the Equipment does not cause issues with tower loading or wind shear, and does
   not interfere with the openings to the tower, ladders, braces, paint removal or painting of
   the tower, and is in compliance with all state and federal laws or the rules and regulations
   of any agency or instrumentality thereof.

3. Inspections. District shall conduct a tower loading test and shall inspect the Tower to
   determine the suitability and condition of the Tower. District shall provide to the City
   detailed plans and specifications certifying that the size and placement of the Equipment
   shall meet or exceed the wind load requirements of the City, setting forth the proposed
   antenna and other equipment, the height and location of such equipment, and the
   equipment shelters related to the use of the equipment.

4. Representations of Condition and Allowed Testing. City makes no representation as to
   the condition of the Tower or its suitability for any purpose desired by District. District
   shall be solely responsible for determining the safety of the Tower or its suitability for the
   uses described herein. District is hereby given the right to survey, soil test, radio
   coverage test, and to conduct any other investigations needed to determine if the surface
   and location/position of the Tower are suitable for District’s use and intended by this
   Agreement. District shall inspect and conduct safety tests prior to accessing or installing
   any Equipment on the Tower.

5. Installation and Maintenance Costs. District is responsible for all installation and
   maintenance costs of the Equipment and shall work in good faith with the City for
   agreeable placement locations and design. City agrees that it shall not move, disconnect
   or adjust, in any way, District’s Equipment without the supervision of a District
   representative on site. District acknowledges and agrees that it shall be responsible for
   moving or protecting its equipment during any repairs or renovations to the Tower, and
   the City shall incur no liability to the District for any injury, expense, or claim incurred
   by District in the event of any such repair or renovation.

6. Interference. District shall not (nor shall it allow any of its employees, agents or others
   claiming through it to) construct, operate, maintain, upgrade or remove any antenna,
   antenna system, the communication shelter and the communications facility or any other
   equipment so as to cause or contribute to any adverse effect or interference with the
   City’s or the equipment of another tenant on the Tower including, without limitation,
   communications equipment or the City’s or other tenant’s use of, or rights of use with
   respect to, the Tower, access easement or utility easement or other contiguous property.
   In the event of any adverse effect or interference, District shall take all steps necessary to
   correct and eliminate the adverse effect or interference within ten (10) days including the
   removal of any interfering antenna or other equipment from the Tower, access easement,
   utility easement or contiguous property.

7. Hazardous Substances. District shall not introduce or use on the site any hazardous
   substance or other substance in violation of any applicable law.

8. Easements. District, its employees, agents, subcontractors, and licensees are hereby
   given and granted a non-exclusive easement for ingress, egress, and regress to and from
   the Tower and easements over, under, upon and across the Tower and adjoining lands and
   rights-of-way owned by the City on a twenty-four (24) hour basis for the purpose of
   erection, installation, operation, inspection, repair, maintenance, and removal of the
   Equipment and other necessary appurtenances and an easement thereon for telephone
   lines, power lines, cables and wires used in connection with the Equipment. Such
   easements for ingress, egress and regress and such easement for telephone lines, power
   lines, cables and wires shall be over existing roads, parking lots, and/or roads on the
   property.

9. Utility Costs. District shall be solely responsible for and promptly pay all charges for
   electricity, telephone service, or any other utility used or consumed by the District in
   relation to the Equipment placed on Tower. If necessary, District shall have an electrical
   current meter installed for District’s electrical usage. District shall be responsible for the
   costs of such meter installation, maintenance, upgrade and repair.

10. No Third-Party Benefit. Neither the City nor District intends to directly or substantially
    benefit a third party by this Agreement. The parties expressly acknowledge that it is not
    their intent to create any right in or obligations to any third-party beneficiaries to this
    Agreement and that no third party shall be entitled to assert a claim against either of them
    based upon this Agreement.

11. Notice. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be deemed
    sufficient if given by a communication in writing, and shall be deemed to have been
    received (a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within three days after
    such notice is deposited in the United States mail, postage pre-paid and addressed to the
    following contacts:

   Murray City:            Chief Administrative Officer
                           5025 South State Street
                           Murray, Utah 84107


   School District:        ___________________________
                           ___________________________
                           ___________________________

12. Immunity and Indemnification. City and District are governmental entities under the
    Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, Title 63G, Chapter 7 of the Utah Code (the “Act”).
    Consistent with the Act, City and District shall be responsible and liable for their own
    wrongful, reckless or negligent acts. The parties agree to indemnify, defend and hold
    each other harmless from any and all damages or claims for damages occurring to
    persons or property as a result of the negligent, reckless or intentional acts or omissions
    of the party. Neither party waives any defenses otherwise available to them under the
    Act.

13. Laws and Regulations. City and District shall comply with all applicable federal, state
    and local laws, codes, ordinances, rules and regulations in performing their respective
    duties, responsibilities and obligations under this Agreement.

14. Assignment. Neither this Agreement nor any interest herein shall be assigned,
    transferred, or encumbered by either party without the written consent of the other party.

15. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent
    jurisdiction to be invalid, void, or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall
    nevertheless continue in full force without being impaired or invalidated in any way.

16. Amendments. This Agreement may be amended, changed, modified or altered only by
    the mutual written agreement of the parties.

17. District Contractors. District’s contractors and subcontractors, if any, who perform
    work for District in accordance with this Agreement, shall also be bound by the
    provisions of this Agreement.

18. Governing Law and Jurisdiction. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws, rules
    and regulations of the State of Utah. Any action or proceeding arising from this
    Agreement shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the State of Utah.
    Venue shall be in Salt Lake City, in the Third Judicial District Court for Salt Lake
    County or the United States District Court of Utah.

19. Independent Contractors. The relationship of the parties established by this Agreement
    is solely that of independent contractors. This Agreement does not create any joint
    venture, partnership, undertaking or business arrangement between the parties. The
    parties and their respective officers, employees, volunteers, agents or contractors shall not
    act as an agent or employee of the other.

20. Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire integrated agreement between
    the parties and supersedes any and all other prior and contemporaneous understandings,
    negotiations or agreements between the parties, whether oral or written.
   21. Term. The term of this Agreement (the “Initial Term”) is five (5) years, beginning on the
       date when the Agreement is fully executed. This Agreement shall be automatically
       renewed for an additional five (5) year period.
           a. During the Initial Term, (i) City may only terminate the Agreement if District
              commits a material breach of the Agreement and shall fail to cure such breach
              within thirty (30) days after written notice thereof; and (ii) District may terminate
              with or without cause upon ninety (90) days notice.
           b. After the Initial Term, either party may terminate this Agreement with or without
              cause upon giving ninety (90) days notice to the other party.

   22. Section Headings. Section headings are for convenience only and shall not affect the
       interpretation of this Agreement.

   23. Waiver. The failure of either party at any time or times hereafter to require strict
       performance by the other of any of the undertakings, agreements or covenants contained
       in this Agreement shall not constitute a waiver of such provision, nor in any way affect
       the validity of the Agreement, any part hereof, or the right of the party hereunder to
       demand strict compliance and performance therewith. None of the undertakings


      ENTERED INTO AND EFFECTIVE as of the day and year first written above.


MURRAY CITY CORPORATION                              MURRAY CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT

_________________________________                    _________________________________
Brett A. Hales, Mayor                                Superintendent

                                                     _________________________________
                                                     (Printed Name)


ATTEST:                                              ATTEST:

_________________________________                    _________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                                                     _________________________________
                                                     (Printed Name and Title)
APPROVED AS TO FORM                 APPROVED AS TO FORM AND
AND LEGALITY                        LEGALITY


_________________________________   _________________________________
G.L. Critchfield, City Attorney
                                    _________________________________
                                    (Printed Name and Title)
Discussion
 Item #4
                                   City Council

                                   Discussion on donations for
                                   non-profit entities

                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗February 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Discuss donating money to non-profit entities.
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ<ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Information
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         None
G.L. Critchfield
Jennifer Kennedy
                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time
for Presentation         The council will discuss how to proceed with donations to
                         non-profit entities.
 20 Minutes

Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
February 8, 2023
Supporting documentation coming in final
               packet.
Discussion
 Item #5
                                    DƵƌƌĂǇŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů

                                    Annual Open and Public Meeting
                                    Act/Anti-Harassment Training

                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗February 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 To review the Open and Public Meeting Act requirements and
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ<ĞŶŶĞĚǇ        the City's Anti-Harassment Policy
ŽƵŶĐŝůŝƌĞĐƚŽƌ    Action Requested
Phone #                  Information only.
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         None
G.L. Critchfield

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        This is an opportunity to review all aspects of the State of Utah
Presentation             Open and Public Meeting Act requirements as it applies to
                         municipal government and elected officials and he City's
20 Minutes               Anti-Harassment Policy and how someone should report
Is This Time             discrimination or harassment.
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
February 7, 2023
OPEN AND PUBLIC
MEETINGS ACT
2023 City Council Annual Training
 The presiding officer of the public body shall ensure that the
  members of the public body are provided with annual training
  on the requirements of the Open and Public Meetings Act.




ANNUAL TRAINING REQUIRED
 52-4-102 Declaration of public policy.


   The Legislature finds and declares that the state, its agencies and political
    subdivisions, exist to aid in the conduct of the people’s business.


   It is the intent of the Legislature that the state, its agencies, and its political
    subdivisions:


        take their actions openly; and


        conduct their deliberations openly.




PUBLIC POLICY
 “Openly” refers to the fact that every portion of every City
  Council meeting must be open to public observation. While
  many entities have a “citizen comment” period, members of the
  audience may not participate in the deliberations of the Council
  without express invitation by the Council.




“ACTING AND DELIBERATING
OPENLY”
 “Meeting” means the convening of the Council, with a quorum
  present whether in person or by electronic means, for the
  purpose of discussing, receiving comments from the public
  about, or acting upon a matter over which the Council has
  jurisdiction.


 Chance gatherings or social gatherings are not meetings




WHAT IS A MEETING?
 “Quorum” means a simple majority of the membership of a
  public body, unless otherwise defined by applicable law.


 Three City Council members




QUORUM DEFINED
   One annual notice published of regularly scheduled meetings


   Give at least 24 hours notice of each meeting


        Agenda, date, time and place


        Post notice at principal office and on Utah Public Notice Website, and
         provide notice to media


        The 24-Hour notice requirement may be disregarded if:
             due to unforeseen circumstances, an emergency meeting is necessary
              to consider matters of an emergency or urgent nature; and
             Council gives the best notice practicable of the time, place, and topics
              to be considered at the emergency meeting.


NOTIFYING THE PUBLIC
 reasonable specificity to notify the public as to the topics to be
  considered at the meeting


 each topic shall be listed under an agenda item



 topic raised by the public may be discussed during an open
  meeting, even if not included in the agenda; but no action may
  be taken




AGENDA
 Closed Meeting may be held if:


    A quorum is present, and

    2/3 of the Council Members, present at the Open Meeting, vote to
     approve closing the meeting.


   The reasons for closing a meeting, the location of the Closed Meeting,
   and the vote by name of each Council Member either for or against
   the motion to hold the closed meeting, must be publicly announced
   and entered on the minutes of the open meeting at which the closed
   meeting was approved.




CLOSED MEETINGS
   Discussion of the character, professional competence, or physical or mental
    health of an individual.


   Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.


   Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property if
    disclosure of the transaction would disclosure the appraisal or value of property,
    or prevent completion on best possible terms.


   Strategy sessions to discuss the sale of real property.


   Discussion regarding the deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems.


   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal misconduct.


REASONS TO CLOSE A MEETING
 A closed meeting shall be recorded and may have detailed
  written minutes.


    Exceptions: discussion of character, professional competence or
     physical or mental health of an individual or the discussion regarding
     the deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems need not
     be recorded. However, in such cases, a sworn affidavit needs to be
     signed regarding the purpose of the closed meeting.


    Closed Meeting Minutes or the Recording are protected records
     under GRAMA, subject to disclosure by court order.




MINUTES OF CLOSED MEETINGS
 Electronic Meetings With Anchor Location: Authorized if done
  pursuant to an adopted resolution, rule, or ordinance and is
  properly noticed.




ELECTRONIC MEETINGS
   Disruptions of Meetings: Individuals can be removed from a public meeting if they willfully
    disrupt the meeting to the extent orderly conduct is seriously compromised.


   Final Actions Voidable: Any final action taken in violation of Section 52-4-201 (meeting not
    open but should have been), 52-4-202 (notice provisions, including closed meetings), or 52-4-
    207 (electronic meetings) is voidable by a court. Statute of limitations is 90 days, except
    challenge to approval of bonds is 30 days.


   Public Enforcement: Utah Attorney General and District Attorney may enforce chapter.


   Private Enforcement: A person denied any right under this chapter may commence suit in
    court to:
         compel compliance with or enjoin violations of this chapter; or
         determine the chapter’s applicability to discussions or decisions of a public body.


   Closed Meeting Violations: Class B misdemeanor.




ENFORCEMENT
 Transparency laws (open meetings, open records) are referred to
  as Sunshine Laws, meaning that the business of the public body is
  to be conducted “in the sunshine,” or in the open, and the public
  may attend, observe, and scrutinize.


 Utah enacted the very first Sunshine Law in 1898, the Utah Open
  and Public Meetings Act.




UTAH’S HERITAGE OF TRANSPARENCY
CITY COUNCIL
HARASSMENT
  TRAINING
POLICY

• To foster and maintain a work environment that is free from discrimination and
 intimidation. Toward this end, the City Council will not tolerate harassment of any
 kind that is made by City Councilmembers toward fellow Councilmembers, City
 Council Staff, City employees or members of the public.
Who is Covered By City Council Policy?

• Rule IX, Council Relations, Anti-Harassment Policy Applies to Councilmembers.
Harassment Defined

• Harassment is unwelcome conduct that is based on race, color, religion, sex
 (including pregnancy, childbirth and related medical conditions), national origin,
 age (40 or older), disability, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation,
 honorably discharged veteran or military status or the presence of any sensory,
 mental or physical disability or the use of a trained dog guide or service animal by
 a person with a disability.
  What Conduct is Harassing Conduct?
• The making of demeaning comments, whether verbally or in writing, or use of
 unwelcome epithets, gestures or other physical conduct, based on the protected
 classes.


• Harassment does not have to be of a sexual nature in order to be illegal.
 Offending conduct based on a victim’s gender that is severe or pervasive enough
 to create a hostile (abusive) work environment is also illegal.
What is Sexual Harassment?
• Sexual harassment is a form of sex discrimination. EEOC guidelines define sexual
 harassment as unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other
 verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when:
• Submission to such conduct is a term or condition of an individual’s employment.
 The requirement may be stated outright or may be implicit, or implied.
• Submission to or rejection of the conduct is a basis for employment decisions

• Conduct of a sexual nature has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering
 with work performance
• Conduct of a sexual nature creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working
 environment.
Unwelcome Conduct

• Unwelcome means unwanted. Sexual conduct is unwelcome whenever the person
 subjected to it considers it unwelcome.
Either Gender May Harass, Either Gender May be a Victim
of Harassment

• To constitute harassment, the conduct does not need to be sexually motivated.
 The harassment just needs to be based on a victim’s gender.
Inappropriate Conduct
• What constitutes sexual harassment can vary depending on the situation and people
 involved.
• Examples of actions that could be sexual harassment if they happen often enough or are
 severe enough to make one uncomfortable, intimidated, or distracted enough to interfere
 with their work:

  • unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors

  • direct or indirect threats or bribes for sexual activity

  • sexual innuendos and comments, or sexually suggestive jokes may be sexual harassment in
    some contexts

  • unwelcome touching or brushing against a person
Inappropriate Conduct (continued)
 • compliments of an employee’s appearance

 • commenting on the attractiveness of others in front of an employee

 • asking an employee about his or her sex life

 • circulating nude photos or photos of women in bikinis or shirtless men in the workplace

 • sexually suggestive text messages or emails

 • leaving unwanted gifts of a sexual or romantic nature

 • repeated hugs or other unwanted touching (e.g., a hand on an employee’s back)

 • Finally, attempted or completed sexual assault would be sexual harassment
Laws that Apply

 • These laws protect individuals from discrimination based upon sex.


   • Federal Law: Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. protects individuals from discrimination
     based upon sex.

   • State Law: Chapter 5 of title 34A of the Utah Code, known as the Utah Antidiscrimination Act.


 • Council Rule IX.
Reporting Inappropriate Conduct

• If the incident involves a city employee, or an appointee to an advisory board or a
 commission, the incident should be reported as soon as possible to the Mayor.


• If the incident involves a Councilmember or Council Staff, the incident should be
 reported as soon as possible to the City Attorney.
Investigation

• Prompt investigation

• Confidential investigation to fullest extent possible
Corrective Action
• Anyone who is found to have violated this policy is subject to corrective action.
 Corrective action will depend on the gravity of the offense. The City Council will
 take whatever action it deems necessary to prevent an offense from being
 repeated.
No Retaliation
• The City Council will not permit retaliation against anyone who makes a complaint
 or who cooperates in an investigation.
Discussion
 Item #6
                                   City Council

                                    Legislative Updates


                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗February 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Update on the 2023 Legislative Session
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ<ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Information Only
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         None
Pam Cotter
G.L. Critchfield
                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        Provide the council with an update on the 2023 Legislative
Presentation             Session.

10 Minutes

Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
February 7, 2023
Adjournment
Council Meeting
  6:30 p.m.
     Call to Order
  Pledge of Allegiance
Council Meeting
   Minutes
OPENING CEREMONIES
 Council in Attendance:

 Philip Markham, District #1
 Pamela Cotter, District #2
 Rosalba Dominguez, District #3 (Conducting)
 Diane Turner, District #4
 Garry Hrechkosy, District #5
 Jennifer Kennedy, Council Director
                                            ft
             ra
 Pattie Johnson, Council Office Administrator III
 Crystal Brown, Officer Administrator

 Administrative Staff in Attendance:

 Brett A. Hales, Mayor
 Doug Hill, Chief Administrative Office
            D

 Tammy Kikuchi, Chief Communication Officer
 G.L. Critchfield, City Attorney
 Brooke Smith, City Recorder
 Brenda Moore, Finance and Administration Director
 Craig Burnett, Police Chief
 Joey Mittelman, Fire Chief
 Jared Hall, Community and Economic Development Director
 Kim Fong, Library Director
 Isaac Zenger, Network Administrator

 Others in Attendance:
 Kirby Croyle, Barbara Ray, Kathy White, Jenn Kikel-Lynn, Kathleen Stanford, Peggy Imai, Anthony Semone,
 Wendy Parson Baker, Adam Hock, Mark Hendrickson, Clark Bullen

 Opening Ceremonies

 Call to Order – Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez called the meeting to order at 6:35 p.m.

 The audience was invited to recite the Pledge of Allegiance led by Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
 1. Council Meeting - January 10, 2023
 2. Council Meeting - January 17, 2023
 MOTION
 Councilmember Philip Markham moved to approve the MINUTES on January 10, 2023, and January 17,
 2023. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Pamela Cotter.

 Roll Call:
 Ayes: Philip Markham, Pamela Cotter, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner, Garry Hrechkosy

 Motion passes 5-0
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
 1. Consider a Joint Resolution of the Mayor and Municipal Council recognizing February 2023 as Love
    Your Library month.
       The Murray City Mayor and Municipal Council passed a joint resolution in February 2023
       declaring the month as "Love Your Library Month" to honor Murray City Library and its
       resources, show appreciation for library users, and encourage Murray citizens to engage with
       the library. The resolution recognized the important role of libraries in providing accessible and
       free educational resources for the community and their positive impact on all age groups, from
       early literacy programs for children to services for adults and life-long learning opportunities.
       The resolution also highlighted the importance of librarians in the functioning of libraries and
       the inclusive nature of libraries in fostering community growth.

       MOTION
       Councilmember Diane Turner moved to adopt the Joint Resolution of the Mayor and Municipal
       Council recognizing February 2023 as Love Your Library month. The motion was SECONDED by
       Councilmember Philip Markham.

       Roll Call:                           ft
       Ayes: Philip Markham, Pamela Cotter, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner, Garry Hrechkosy
            ra
       Motion passes 5-0

       Library Director, Kim Fong shared a brief story about observing a father and his young son
       building blocks at the library's block table. The father informed the son that they had to leave in
       five minutes. The son responded "but the library feels good." This made Kim Fong, who was
       walking by, happy as they want people to feel good when they were in the library. Kim Fong
       thanked the city council for the resolution and the hard work of the library staff.
           D

       Council members shared their support and appreciation for the city Library and what they
       provide for the community.
CITIZEN COMMENT(S)
Those wishing to have their comments read into the record may send an email by 5:00 p.m. the day prior to
the meeting date to city.council@murray.utah.gov. Comments are limited to three minutes or less
(approximately 300 words for emails) and must include your name and address.
 Kirby Croyle

    Kirby Croyle is a resident of Sandy city and a member of the League of Women Voters. She mentioned
    that they frequently use the library and appreciate the space for its light and openness. She is a
    member of the League of Women Voters and is interested in making sure citizens have access to
    information and observing various councils and boards to gather the information that is important to
    their constituents. The league is nonpartisan and its observers document information without any
    opinion or slant. They are celebrating their 103rd anniversary this month, founded on Valentine's Day to
    encourage citizens to register to vote and care about their communities. The league also offers a
    weekly briefing of items across the county that may be of interest to citizens. The speaker thanks the
    mayor and other council members for their hard work and devotion to their communities.

 Barbara Ray

    Barbara Ray is grateful for the City Council's decision to install a camera in the back of the council
    meeting, which can be accessed online, allowing viewers to watch the council's proceedings from the
    comfort of their own homes. Barbara Ray also mentions that they appreciate the hard work and
    dedication of the City Council to their community, and mentioned the League of Women Voters, which
    she is a part of, and its mission to provide impartial information to the public. Barbara Ray encourages
    those interested to sign up for the League's weekly briefing online.

 Clark Bullen

    Clark Bullen spoke about the upcoming changes to the zoning of the MCCD and raised a concern that
    there was not a requirement for a historic look and feel in the area. He mentioned that the recent city
    survey showed that citizens would like to see traditional architecture and brick building materials in the
    downtown area. Clark Bullen encouraged the council to consider adding a historic design requirement
    for the MCCD and to approve it before the property at 5025 South State Street goes to market. He
    believes that this will ensure that the new development matches the rest of the MCCD in architectural
    style and fit with the citizens' preferences.
CONSENT AGENDA
None scheduled.
PUBLIC HEARING(S)
Staff, sponsor presentations, and public comments will be given prior to Council action on the following
matter. The Council Meeting Agenda Packet can be found HERE.
 1. Consider an ordinance amending Section 17.78.050 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to
    the minimum area required for detached accessory dwelling units.

    Minutes Attachments
    1. CC 2.07.23 Detached ADU .pdf
       PRESENTATION
                                            ft
       Jared Hall discussed a proposed amendment to the accessory dwelling unit (ADU) section of
             ra
       the city code. The amendment is specifically for detached ADUs and relates only to the
       minimum lot size required for them. The current minimum lot size for detached ADUs is 12,000
       square feet, but the amendment proposes reducing it to 10,000 square feet. Based on the
       review and findings, Staff recommended that the council approve the request to amend the
       text of Chapter 17.78.050(J).

       The applicant, Peggy Imai, was in the audience and declined to speak.
            D

       DISCUSSION

       Council discussed the legislature's intent with housing and ADUs.

       Jared Hall said there was nothing on the horizon as of now that would put Murray at odds with
       the direction the legislature is headed in terms of detached accessory dwelling units with this
       amendment. Currently, the state mandates changes to the interior or attached accessory
       dwelling units but left detached ones alone. In addition, last year, his department processed 18
       ADU applications, and none of them were detached.

       Jared Hall would like to look into ways of making detached accessory dwelling units easier to
       construct but wants to be careful so as not to make the standards too loose and create a
       negative impact on the setback requirements. He mentioned that most single-family lots in
       Murray are 8000 square feet or lower, which makes it difficult to construct detached accessory
       dwelling units. However, staff does support this amendment to reduce the lot size from 12,000
       square feet to 10,000 square feet.

       CITIZEN COMMENTS
       The public hearing was open for public comment.

       No public comments were given, and the open citizen comment period was closed.

       MOTION
       Councilmember Philip Markham moved to approve the ordinance amending Section 17.78.050
       of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to the minimum area required for detached
       accessory dwelling units. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Pamela Cotter.

       Roll Call:
       Ayes: Philip Markham, Pamela Cotter, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner, Garry Hrechkosy

       Motion passed 5-0
BUSINESS ITEM(S)
None scheduled.
MAYOR'S REPORT AND QUESTIONS
 Mayor Hales thanked the council for touring the new city hall construction site. The Mayor believed the
 city hall visit was a positive experience and everyone is excited about the new building.

 Councilmember Philip Markham thanked the Mayor for the Annual Report and recommended making it
 available on the City webpage.

 Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez thanked the Mayor for an invitation to the Board and Commission
 banquet.

 Councilmember Pamela Cotter requested the city invite the alumni of Arlington Elementary to walk
 through the building one more time before it closes. She would also like to have some of the bricks
 preserved for citizens to keep.
ADJOURNMENT
 The meeting was adjourned at 7:05 p.m.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
                                            ft
             ra
The next scheduled meeting will be held on Tuesday, February 21, 2023, at 6:30 p.m. MST.

Supporting materials are available on Murray City's website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special Accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of
Murray City Recorder (801-264-2662). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the
meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711
            D

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does
participate via telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speakerphone. The
speakerphone will be amplified so that the other Council Members and all other persons present in the
Council Chambers will be able to hear all discussions.

At least 24 hours prior to the meeting, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in
the front foyer of the Murray City Center, Murray, Utah. A copy of this notice was posted on Murray City's
internet website www.murray.utah.gov and the state noticing website at http://pmn.utah.gov.
City Council




     ft
February 7, 2023




 ra
D
Applicant: Peggy Imai
Request: Text Amendment to Section 17.78.050.(J) changing the
minimum square footage for Detached Accessory Dwelling Units




                              ft
                        ra
(ADU) from 12,000 sq.ft. to 10,000 sq.ft. minimum
Address: N/A

                    D
D
 ra
    ft
D
 ra
    ft
D
 ra
    ft
FINDINGS
1. The proposed text amendment furthers objective 9 of the Land Use and Urban Design Element of the General
   Plan to “provide a mix of housing options and residential zones to meet a diverse range of needs related to
   lifestyle and demographics, including age, household size, and income” by making the process to construct
   and operate an ADU easier.

2. The proposed changes are in harmony with objective 11 of the Land Use and Urban Design Element to
   “stimulate reinvestment in deteriorating areas of the city to support growth and enhance the image of the




                                                      ft
   community” by reducing the minimum area requirement from 12,000 square feet to 10,000 square feet for a
   detached ADU.




                                            ra
3. Staff finds that objective 3 of the Neighborhoods & Housing Element that states “encourage housing options
   for a variety of age, family size and financial levels” supports the proposed changes. This allows additional




                                    D
   residents that own a home that may be struggling to pay their mortgage or have a family member, friend or
   caretaker to reside on the same property.

4. Objective 1 of the Moderate-Income Housing Element states “ensure housing affordability targets are
   achievable using a range of strategies”. One of the strategies in this objective states to continue to support
   ADUs in all residential zones. Staff finds that the proposed change will further this objective by making it
   easier to construct and operate a detached ADU.
                    Staff Recommendation



The Planning Commission and staff recommends that the City Council APPROVE




                                 ft
the requested amendment to Section 17.78.050.(J) Detached Accessory
Dwelling Units, to state: The minimum lot size required for construction




                         ra
of a detached ADU in all single-family residential zones shall be ten
thousand (10,000) square feet.




                  D
THANK YOU



    ft
  ra
D
 Special
Recognition
   Special
Recognition #1
                                   City Council/Mayor

                                   Employee of the Month - Scott
                                   White

                                   ŽƵŶĐŝůDĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗February 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 ŵƉůŽǇĞĞŽĨƚŚĞDŽŶƚŚƌĞĐŽŐŶŝƚŝŽŶ
Jennifer Kennedy
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  /ŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶĂůŽŶůǇ
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         ZĞĐŽŐŶŝƚŝŽŶ&Žƌŵ
Rosalba Dominguez
Joey Mittelman
                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        See Employee of the Month Recognition Form
Presentation


Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
February 7, 2023
                           EMPLOYEE OF THE MONTH RECOGNITION



DEPARTMENT:                                                    DATE:

Fire                                                           2-21-23

NAME of person to be recognized:                               Submitted by:

Scott White                                                     Joey Mittelman

DIVISION AND JOB TITLE:

Fire Marshal's Office Inspector
YEARS OF SERVICE:
36


REASON FOR RECOGNITION:

Scott White started with Murray City Fire Department in 1987 part-time and was hired
full-time in 1992. Scott Retired from Murray City as a full-time operations Captain in 2019.
In 2021 Scott was rehired as a part-time Fire Inspector and has been filling the roles of
Inspector and Deputy Fire Marshal. Over the past 2 years Scott continues his passion for
fire safety and community education. Using his background as an operations Fire Captain
he has implemented and completing our signing of each sprinkler riser room within
Murray. These signs allow the emergency response to quickly identify and mitigate the
emergency. Scott has also recently improved the safety of many properties within his
assigned west-side of Murray Business district. He completes his duties and more with
professionalism, kindness and education. Scott's value to our Fire Prevention Division
has proved to be beyond a regular employee value and we would like to recognize him as
the Murray City Employee of the Month this February.




COUNCIL USE:

MONTH/YEAR HONORED
   Special
Recognition #2
                                   City Council

                                   Resolution from Wasatch Front
                                   Waste and Recycling District

                                   Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗February 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Recognize Board Member Diane Turner
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ<ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Information
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         WFWRD Resolution
Pam Roberts

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation             Pam Roberts with WFWRD will present Diane Turner with a
                         resolution of appreciation for her service on the WFWRD Board.

Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
February 8, 2023
          Citizen
         Comments
Limited to three minutes, unless otherwise approved by Council
Consent Agenda
                                    Mayor's Office

                                    Appointment - Karen Summerhays
                                    to the Senior Rec. Center Board.

                                    ŽƵŶĐŝůDĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗February 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Appointment of board member.
Kim Sorensen
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider confirmation of the Mayor's appointment of
801-264-2619             Karen Summerhays to the Senior Recreation Center Board.
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Resume
Mayor Hales

                    Budget Impact
                         None


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        Karen Summerhays will be appointed to the Senior Recreation
Presentation             Center board from February 2023 - January 2026. Karen will fill
                         the position left vacant by Becky Harris.

Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
February 7, 2023
                                 
                       =BYK`iKIw=Bow8Bfi`KfwB`Iw=Bow8fBGiTGKw7n`KfwnTiPwwqKBfgwaMwKocKfTK`GK w!w
                       gkGGKggMkYwGBfKKfwT`wcYB``T`NwIKlKYacT`NwB`IwKoKGkiT`NwKlK`igwB`IwQ`UiQBiQlKgw
                       iawNfanwGYTK`iKYKwfKlK`kK w8faMKggTa`BYwB`IwakiNaT`NwnTiPwgkGGKggwT`wEkTYIT`Nw
                       fKZBiTa`gPQcgwB`IwBiifBGiT`Nw`KnwGYTK`ig w
       
                       
   
                        !I^QiiKIwiaw8fBGiTGKwQ`w?;w=Bow$akfiwT`w w 6BiTa`BZw=Bow8fBGiTGKw-`giTikiKw)KZRaA
                       w                                      gT`GKww
ww4kffBqw?=ww    (`faYYKIw!NK`iwgT`GKw

                          

                       "kJSiw:LdfLhL`iCiTmLw
                       >Cpw"kJTiw *LF w w 9fLhL`iw
                              u    :LdfLhL`iwT`JTmTJkCYhwk`JLfw.:<wCkJTihwFrwbfOC`TsT`OwiPLTfwiCp
                                  JaHk^L`ihwC`Jw^LLiT`OwnTiPw.:<w"kJTibfh
                       >Dw9Cfi`Lfw
                       <bkiPw/bfJC`w@>w
                       1Cfhb`ww"hhbHUCiLh w 'LHww ibw"dfT[ww
                           u"ddYTLJwMLJLfCYwC`JwhiCiLwObmLf`^L`iwfLOkZCiTb`hwibwdfLdCfLwCHHkfCiL
                             C`JwHb^dZTC`iwiCpwfLikf`hwMbfwFkhT`LhhwC`JwT`JTmTJkCYh
                           u<ifCiLOTtLwdZC`hwibwPLYdwHYTL`ihwfLJkHLwYTCFTYTiTLhwC`Jw_CpU_UsL
                             JLJkHiUb`hwT`wMkikfLwiDwdLfTbJh
                           u,C`JYLw.:<wC`Jw<iCiLwiCpwCkJTihwC`JwGbZ\LGiTb`h
                       9fLhTJL`iw
                       <C[iw2CXLw%Tirw @>w
                       >PLw<k^^LfPCrhw+fbkd w/k`w w ibw'LHww
                            uw0LdiwdfaVLHiwiLC^hwb` iChXwnTiPwdfbCHiTmLwHb`ifb]waMwFkJOLih
                               hGPLJkZLhwC`JwhHadLwaMwnafX
                            u>fCT`LJwC`JwGbCGPLJwXLrwiLC^w^L^FLfhwb`wdfaJkHiTb`wiLHP`TekLhwib
                               LhiCFYThPwLpdLHiCiTb`hwC`JwL`hkfLwHb^d[TC`HLwnTiPwekCYTj
                               OkTJLYT`Lhw
                            v5LLiwnTiPwHYTL`ihwMafwiCpwdfLdCfCiTb`wiCpwdYC``T`OwC`JwFkhT`Lhh
                               Hb`hkZiT`O

                                      
                       #BGPKYafwaMw;GTK`GKw!GGak`iQ`Nw
                       ?`TlKfgTiqwaMw?iBPw
                       ;BYiw3BWKw$Qiqw?=w
Business Items
Business Item #1
                                    Mayor's Office

                                    Interlocal Agreement accepting
                                    transfer of Riverview Park

                                    Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗February 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Consider a Resolution and Interlocal Agreement accepting the
Mayor Brett Hales        transfer of Riverview Park from Salt Lake County to Murray City
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider approval of Resolution and Agreement
801-264-2600
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Resolution, Agreement, Supporting documentation
Doug Hill

                    Budget Impact
                         Approximately $20,000 + utilities annually. Capital
                         Improvements as funded.

                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        Salt Lake County owns and maintains Riverview Park located at
Presentation             5844 South 700 West in Murray. Salt Lake County is willing to
                         transfer ownership to Murray City. An Interlocal Agreement is
5 Minutes                required to formalize the transfer. A cost analysis to maintain
Is This Time             and upgrade the park to Murray's standards is attached.
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
February 3, 2023
                          RESOLUTION NO. ___________


      A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE TRANSFER OF RIVERVIEW
      PARK FROM SALT LAKE COUNTY TO MURRAY CITY

      WHEREAS, Salt Lake County owns and operates the Riverview Park, located at
approximately 5844 South 700 West within Murray City boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the County is desirous to transfer the ownership and maintenance of
the Riverview Park to the City; and
       WHEREAS, the City believes the transfer of the Riverview Park, and City’s
ownership and maintenance, will enhance the public’s recreation and enjoyment within
the City; and
      WHEREAS, the Council believes the transfer to be in the public interest and
complies with applicable law; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to accept the transfer of the Riverview Park from
Salt Lake County; and
       WHEREAS, the County and the City have prepared an interlocal agreement to
formalize the transfer;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council as
follows:

      1. It hereby accepts the transfer of the Riverview Park from Salt Lake County; and

      2. It approves the interlocal agreement, in substantially the form attached hereto.


      DATED this _____ day of _________________, 2023.


                                        MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                        ___________________________________
                                        Gary Hrechkosy, Chair


ATTEST
_____________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                                                    County Contract No.
                                                    DA’s Contract No. 22CIV001547

                     Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
         THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (“Agreement”), is made
effective this __ day of ________, 2023, by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body
corporate and politic of the state of Utah (“County”) and MURRAY CITY, a municipal corporation
of the State of Utah (“Murray”). County and Murray may each be referred to herein individually as
a “Party” and jointly as the “Parties.”

                                         RECITALS

       WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-202 provides that any two or more public
agencies may enter into an agreement with one another for joint or cooperative actions; and

       WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-214 provides that any public agency may convey
property to or acquire property from any other public agencies for consideration as may be
agreed upon; and

        WHEREAS, Murray and County are public agencies as contemplated in the above
referenced sections of the Utah Code (more specifically referred to as UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-
101, et seq. - Interlocal Cooperation Act); and

      WHEREAS, the conveyance of property provided herein is an interest in real property as
contemplated in the Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

        WHEREAS, County owns several parcels of real property known as Riverview Park,
located at approximately 5844 South 700 West, Murray, Salt Lake County, State of Utah 84107
(Parcel Nos. 21-14-426-032-0000, 21-14-426-019-0000, 21-14-426-031-0000, and as further
described in the Quitclaim Deed attached hereto as Exhibit A), which is real property in the
public use as a public park; and

        WHEREAS, County also owns several parcels of real property known as Woodstock
Meadows Park, located at approximately 1036 East and 1060 East Hyland Lake Dr., Murray,
Salt Lake County, State of Utah 84121 (Parcel Nos. 22-17-402-004-0000, 22-17-402-003-0000,
and as further described in the Quitclaim Deed attached hereto as Exhibit B), which is in the
public use as a public park; and

        WHEREAS, Riverview Park, and Woodstock Meadows Park, are collectively referred to
herein as the “Parks”; and

       WHEREAS, County desires to formally transfer and convey the Parks to Murray, and
Murray desires to formally take and receive the Parks from County, for the purposes and on the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
                                         AGREEMENT
        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises set forth herein, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and legal sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the
Parties hereby agree as follows:

1.      Conveyance. County shall convey the Parks to Murray via quitclaim deeds (hereinafter
“Quitclaim Deeds”), for the purpose of operating and maintaining neighborhood parks. Murray
shall be solely responsible for maintaining the Parks and shall repair or replace improvements
thereon as necessary to maintain their current function and use.

2.      Consideration. County and Murray agree that in consideration of the mutual benefit
afforded the citizens of Murray and County, the restrictions on use identified in Section 3, and 4,
and the exchange of agreed upon consideration in accordance with Section 11-13-214 of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, County will convey the Parks to Murray as outlined herein.

3.     Use Restriction. The Parks shall be used by Murray solely for public parks:

           a. The Quitclaim Deeds conveying the Parks shall include a perpetual restriction
              requiring the Parks to be used by Murray or its successors in interest solely as
              public parks or open spaces, and in the event Murray ceases using any portion of
              the Parks as a public park or open space, the Parks will revert to County in its
              entirety. The form of the Quitclaim Deeds for each individual park is attached
              hereto as Exhibits A and B respectively.

4.      Land Water Conservation Funds. It appears that the Parks were acquired or improved
using Land Water Conservation Funds. As a result, the Parties agree that the following limitation
of use shall apply and shall be set forth in the Quitclaim Deeds;

           a. This Property has been acquired or developed with federal financial assistance
              provided by the National Park Service through the Land and Water Conservation
              Fund program in accordance with the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of
              1965, as amended (Public Law 88-5778; currently codified at 54 U.S.C. 2003 et
              seq.). Pursuant to a requirement of that law, this Property may not be converted to
              other than public outdoor recreation uses (whether by transfer, sale, or in any
              other manner) without the express written approval of the Secretary of the
              Interior. By law, the Secretary of the Interior shall approve such conversion only
              if the Secretary finds it to be in accordance with the then existing statewide
              comprehensive outdoor recreation plan and only on such conditions as the
              Secretary considers necessary to ensure the substitution of other recreation
              properties of at least equal fair market value and of reasonably equivalent
              usefulness and location.

5.     Operation of the Parks. Upon transfer of the Parks to Murray, Murray shall be solely
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the Parks, and Murray shall indemnify County
from and against all liabilities, claims, damages, losses, suits, judgments, causes of action, liens,



                                                  2
fines, penalties, costs, and expenses (including, but not limited to, court costs, attorneys’ fees,
and costs of investigation) directly or indirectly arising out of, caused by, or resulting from, in
whole or in part, Murray’s operation and maintenance of the Parks or any act or omission of
Murray, any independent contractor retained by Murray, or anyone directly or indirectly
employed by them, while working on and/or maintaining the Parks.

6.       Duration and Termination. This Agreement shall take effect upon execution and
terminate upon the performance by the Parties of all the obligations described herein. The
Parties intend that the conveyance of the Parks shall be accomplished promptly. Any provision
of this Agreement which contemplates performance subsequent to the exchange of title to the
Parks shall survive such exchange of title and shall continue in full force and effect until fully
satisfied, but in no event shall this Agreement have a term longer than fifty (50) years.

7.     Additional Interlocal Cooperation Act Provisions. In compliance with the
requirements of the Interlocal Cooperation Act and other applicable law:

           a. No Interlocal Entity. The Parties agree that they do not by this Agreement create
              an interlocal entity.

           b. Joint Board. As required by UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-207, the Parties agree that
              the cooperative undertaking under this Agreement shall be administered by a joint
              board consisting of the County’s Mayor or designee and the Murray’s Manager or
              designee. Any real or personal property used in the Parties’ cooperative
              undertaking herein shall be acquired, held, and disposed in accordance with this
              Agreement.

           c. Financing Joint Cooperative Undertaking and Establishing Budget. There is no
              financing of joint or cooperative undertaking and no budget shall be established or
              maintained.

           d. Attorney Review. This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and
              compliance with applicable law by the authorized attorneys for County and
              Murray in accordance with UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-202.5.

           e. Copies. Duly executed original counterparts of this Agreement shall be filed with
              the keeper of records of each Party, pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-209.

           f. Manner of Acquiring, Holding or Disposing of Property. The Parks shall be
              acquired, held or disposed of pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and unless
              agreed to herein shall not be used in a joint or cooperative undertaking.

8.     General Provisions. The following provisions are also integral parts of this Agreement:

           a. Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the
              benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective Parties hereto.




                                                  3
b. Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference purposes
   only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any
   way the meaning, scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this
   Agreement or the intent hereof.

c. Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts with
   the same effect as if the signatures upon any counterpart were upon the same
   instrument. All signed counterparts shall be deemed to be one original.

d. Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should any
   provision hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable,
   unenforceable, or invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this
   Agreement.

e. Waiver of Breach. Any waiver by either Party of any breach of any kind or
   character whatsoever by the other, whether such be direct or implied, shall not be
   construed as a continuing waiver of or consent to any subsequent breach of this
   Agreement.

f. Cumulative Remedies. The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto shall be
   construed cumulatively, and none of such rights and remedies shall be exclusive
   of, or in lieu or limitation of, any other right, remedy, or priority allowed by law.

g. Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument in
   writing signed by the Parties hereto.

h. Time of Essence. Time is of the essence in this Agreement.

i. Interpretation. This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed, and enforced
   according to the substantive laws of the state of Utah.

j. Notice. Any notice or other communication required or permitted to be given
   hereunder shall be deemed to have been received (a) upon personal delivery or
   actual receipt thereof or (b) within three (3) days after such notice is deposited in
   the United States mail, certified mail, postage prepaid, and addressed to the
   Parties at their respective addresses.

k. Exhibits and Recitals. The Recitals set forth above and all exhibits to this
   Agreement are incorporated herein to the same extent as if such items were set
   forth herein in their entirety within the body of this Agreement.

l. Governmental Immunity. Both Parties are governmental entities under the
   Governmental Immunity Act, UTAH CODE ANN. § 63G-7-101, et seq. (the
   “Immunity Act”). Consistent with the terms of the Immunity Act, the Parties agree
   that each Party is responsible and liable for any wrongful or negligent acts which
   it commits or which are committed by its agents, officials, or employees. Neither



                                      4
              Party waives any defenses or limits of liability otherwise available under the
              Immunity Act and all other applicable law, and both Parties maintain all
              privileges, immunities, and other rights granted by the Immunity Act and all other
              applicable law.

           m. Ethical Standards. The Parties hereto represent that they have not: (a) provided an
              illegal gift or payoff to any officer or employee, or former officer or employee,
              or to any relative or business entity of an officer or employee, or relative or
              business entity of a former officer or employee of the other party hereto; (b)
              retained any person to solicit or secure this Agreement upon any contract,
              agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or
              contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies
              established for the purpose of securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical
              standards set forth in State statute or County’s Ethics, Gifts and Honoraria
              ordinance (Chapter 2.07, SALT LAKE COUNTY CODE OF ORDINANCES [2001]); or
              (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promise that they will not knowingly
              influence, any officer or employee or former officer or employee to breach any of
              the ethical standards set forth in State statute or County ordinances.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Murray, by resolution duly adopted by its Council, caused
this Agreement to be signed by its Mayor and attested by its Recorder; and County, by resolution
of its County Council, caused this Agreement to be signed by the Salt Lake County Mayor, or
his/her designee, his or her signature being duly notarized.

                                [Signature Page Follows Below]




                                                5
                                            SALT LAKE COUNTY


                                            By: ______________________________________
                                                Mayor or Designee
Recommended for Approval:

____________________________________
Director of Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation

Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:

____________________________________
John E. Diaz
Deputy District Attorney
Salt Lake County
                                            MURRAY CITY, a Utah Municipal Corporation


                                            By _______________________________________
                                               Mayor or Designee

ATTEST:

___________________________________
Murray’s Recorder

Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:

_____________________________________
Murray’s Attorney

STATE OF UTAH                   )
                               :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On this __day of __________, 2023, personally appeared before me _______________, who
being duly sworn, did say that (s)he is the ___________________ of Salt Lake County, Office of
Mayor, and that the foregoing instrument was signed on behalf of Salt Lake County, by authority
of law.



                                                          NOTARY PUBLIC
  [SEAL]                                             Residing in Salt Lake County




                                               6
          Exhibit A
(Riverview Park Quitclaim Deed)




               7
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:
Salt Lake County
Salt Lake County Real Estate Manager
2001 South State Street, S3-110
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

                  Tax I.D. Nos. 21-14-426-032-0000, 21-14-426-019-0000, 21-14-426-031-0000

                                  QUITCLAIM DEED
        SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah, (hereinafter
referred to as “Grantor”), for the sum of ten dollars ($10.00), and other good and valuable
consideration, hereby quitclaims to Murray City, a body corporate and politic of the State of
Utah, (hereinafter referred to as “Grantee”), the following described parcels of land commonly
known as Riverview Park, located at 5844 South 700 East, Murray City, Salt Lake County, State
of Utah 84107 (the “Property”), and as more specifically described in Exhibit A, attached hereto
and incorporated herein by this reference.

Perpetual Restriction. The Property is to be used by Grantee or its successors in interest solely as
a public park or open space. If Grantee ceases using any portion of the Property as a public park
or open space, the Property will revert to Grantor in its entirety.

Notice of Limitation of Use. This Property has been acquired or developed with federal financial
assistance provided by the National Park Service through the Land and Water Conservation Fund
program in accordance with the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended
(Public Law 88-5778; currently codified at 54 U.S.C. 2003 et seq.). Pursuant to a requirement of
that law, this Property may not be converted to other than public outdoor recreation uses
(whether by transfer, sale, or in any other manner) without the express written approval of the
Secretary of the Interior. By law, the Secretary of the Interior shall approve such conversion only
if the Secretary finds it to be in accordance with the then existing statewide comprehensive
outdoor recreation plan and only on such conditions as the Secretary considers necessary to
ensure the substitution of other recreation properties of at least equal fair market value and of
reasonably equivalent usefulness and location.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Grantor has caused this Quitclaim Deed to be signed and its
official seal to be affixed hereto by its duly authorized officer this __ day of
__________________, 2023.


                                      [Signature Page Follows Below]
                                       SALT LAKE COUNTY


                                       By_______________________________________
                                             Mayor or Designee

SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK


______________________________
County Clerk



STATE OF UTAH                  )
                               : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE            )

On this __ day of ________________, 2023, personally appeared before me __________________, who
being duly sworn, did say that s/he is the _____________________________ of Salt Lake County, Office
of Mayor, and that the foregoing instrument was signed on behalf of Salt Lake County, by authority of
law.

                                              ____________________________________
                                              NOTARY PUBLIC
                                              Residing in Salt Lake County

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On this __ day of ____________, 2023, personally appeared before me ___________________,
who being duly sworn, did say that s/he is the County Clerk of Salt Lake County, and that the
foregoing instrument was signed in his/her official capacity, and by authority of law.

                                              ____________________________________
                                              NOTARY PUBLIC
                                              Residing in Salt Lake County


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:

_____________________________
John E. Diaz
Deputy District Attorney
Salt Lake County




                                                 2
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                  (Legal Description)

Parcel 21-14-426-019
Beginning S 0°14'26" E 675.76 feet & S 89°45'34" W 33 feet from the East Quarter
Corner of Section 14, T 2S, R 1W, Salt Lake Base & Meridian; thence West 212.57 feet;
thence North 207.42 feet; thence N 89°59' E 80.99 feet; thence S 0°14'26" E 144.54
feet; thence N 89°41'35" E 130.72 feet; thence S 0°14'26" E 65.02 feet to the point of
beginning. Contains 0.58 acre more or less.

Parcel 21-14-426-031
Beginning S 0°14'26" E 468.07 feet & S 88°59' W 244.7 feet from the East Quarter
Corner of Section 14, T 2S, R 1W, Salt Lake Base & Meridian; thence North 3.87 feet;
thence S 88°59' W 750.1 feet more or less; thence South 4.48 feet more or less; thence
N 88°56'07" E 750.12 feet more or less to the point of beginning. Contains 0.07 acre
more or less.

Parcel 21-14-426-032
Beginning S 0°14'40" E 675.9 feet & West 245.57 feet from the East Quarter Corner of
Section 14, T 2S, R 1W, Salt Lake Base & Meridian; thence West 277.15 feet; thence
South 200.56 feet; thence West 472.86 feet more or less; thence North 389.97 feet
more or less; thence N 88°59' E 750.42 feet more or less; thence South 202.55 feet to
the point of beginning. Contains 5.55 acres more or less.




                                          3
                                                                                                                                       LINE TABLE
                                                                                                                              LINE #   LENGTH      BEARING

                                                                                                                                L1     212.57'       WEST

                                                                                                                               L2      207.42'      NORTH

                                                                                                                               L3       80.99'   N 89° 59' 00" E

                                                                                                                               L4      144.54'   S 0° 14' 26" E

                                                                                                                               L5      130.72'   N 89° 41' 35" E

                                                                                                                               L6       65.02'   S 0° 14' 26" E




                                                                                                    S88°59'00"W       21-14-426-019




                                                                                                                                                     700 WEST
                                                            21-14-426-031                           750.10'             0.58 ACRE
                              S0°00'00"E
                              4.48'                           0.07 ACRE                                                L3
                                                                                                  N0°00'00"E
                                                             N88°59'00"E                               3.87'




                                                                                                                              L4
                                                             750.42'




                                                                                                               L2
                                                                                                  S0°00'00"E
                                                                                                                                       L5
                                                                                                    202.55'
                                     RIVERVIEW PARK
       N0°00'00"E




                                                                                                                                                   L6
                    389.97'




                                                                                                   277.15'
                                       5.55 ACRES                                                                               L1
                                                                                                 N90°00'00"W
                                                                                    S0°00'00"E




                                      21-14-426-032
                                                                          200.56'




                                                                                                                  5845 SOUTH



                                             472.86'
                                         N90°00'00"W



                                     GREENOAKS DRIVE (5900 SOUTH)




Prepared: October 21, 2022
                                             RIVERVIEW PARK                                                       Prepared by the Office of:
                                               5844 S. 700 W.
                                          QUITCLAIM DEED - 4031:Q
                                                         Prepared for:
                                                                                                                  2001 S. State St. #N1-400
                                Section 14, T. 2S., R. 1W., S.L.B.&M.     Drawn by: CJL                        Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-4575
                                   Work Order No. W071422014             Checked by: SVK                               (385) 468-8240
              Exhibit B
(Woodstock Meadows Park Quitclaim Deed)




                   8
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:
Salt Lake County
Salt Lake County Real Estate Manager
2001 South State Street, S3-110
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

                                             Tax I.D. Nos. 22-17-402-004-0000, 22-17-402-003-0000

                                      QUITCLAIM DEED
         SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah, (hereinafter referred to
as “Grantor”), for the sum of ten dollars ($10.00), and other good and valuable consideration, hereby
quitclaims to Murray City, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah, (hereinafter referred to as
“Grantee”), the following described parcels of land commonly known as Woodstock Meadows Park,
located at 1036 East and 1060 East Hyland Lake Dr., Murray City, Salt Lake County, State of Utah 84121
(the “Property”), and as more specifically described in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein
by this reference.

Perpetual Restriction. The Property is to be used by Grantee or its successors in interest solely as a public
park or open space. If Grantee ceases using any portion of the Property as a public park or open space, the
Property will revert to Grantor in its entirety.

Notice of Limitation of Use. This Property has been acquired or developed with federal financial
assistance provided by the National Park Service through the Land and Water Conservation Fund
program in accordance with the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (Public
Law 88-5778; currently codified at 54 U.S.C. 2003 et seq.). Pursuant to a requirement of that law, this
Property may not be converted to other than public outdoor recreation uses (whether by transfer, sale, or
in any other manner) without the express written approval of the Secretary of the Interior. By law, the
Secretary of the Interior shall approve such conversion only if the Secretary finds it to be in accordance
with the then existing statewide comprehensive outdoor recreation plan and only on such conditions as
the Secretary considers necessary to ensure the substitution of other recreation properties of at least equal
fair market value and of reasonably equivalent usefulness and location.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Grantor has caused this Quitclaim Deed to be signed and its official
seal to be affixed hereto by its duly authorized officer this __ day of __________________, 2023.


                                          [Signature Page Follows Below]
                                       SALT LAKE COUNTY


                                       By_______________________________________
                                             Mayor or Designee

SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK


______________________________
County Clerk



STATE OF UTAH                  )
                               : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE            )

On this __ day of ________________, 2023, personally appeared before me __________________, who
being duly sworn, did say that s/he is the _____________________________ of Salt Lake County, Office
of Mayor, and that the foregoing instrument was signed on behalf of Salt Lake County, by authority of
law.

                                              ____________________________________
                                              NOTARY PUBLIC
                                              Residing in Salt Lake County

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On this __ day of ____________, 2023, personally appeared before me ___________________,
who being duly sworn, did say that s/he is the County Clerk of Salt Lake County, and that the
foregoing instrument was signed in his/her official capacity, and by authority of law.

                                              ____________________________________
                                              NOTARY PUBLIC
                                              Residing in Salt Lake County


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:

_____________________________
John E. Diaz
Deputy District Attorney
Salt Lake County




                                                 2
                                         EXHIBIT A
                                      (Legal Description)

Parcel 22-17-402-003
Commencing 24.8 rods South & 5.42 rods West from the center of Section 17, T 2S, R
1E, Salt Lake Base & Meridian; and running thence South 16.42 rods; thence East
46.42 rods; thence N 2°24' E 16.2 rods; thence West 46.42 rods to the point of
beginning. Also, commencing at the Southeast Corner of Lot 33, Hyland Lake
Subdivision, and running thence North 1 foot; thence East 452.87 feet; thence South 1
foot; thence West 452.87 feet to the point of beginning. Contains 4.74 acres.

Parcel 22-17-402-004
Commencing 41.22 rods South & 5.42 rods West from the center of Section 17, T 2S, R
1E, Salt Lake Base & Meridian; and running thence South 16.42 rods; thence East
46.42 rods; thence N 2°24' E 16.2 rods; thence West 46.42 rods to the point of
beginning. Contains 4.74 acres.




                                               3
                                              S0°00'00"E
                                                   1.00'

                                     S89°28'00"W                             S89°28'00"W HYLAND LAKE DRIVE
                                         291.06'                               452.87'




                                                                                                      N2°24'00"E
           S0°00'00"E




                                                                                                       272.30'
                                                      WOODSTOCK MEADOWS PARK
                        270.93'




                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                              E DRIV
                                                                    22-17-402-003
                                                                     4.602 ACRES




                                                                                                                                        ID
                                                                   N89°28'00"E




                                                                                                                                  LAKES
                                                                          732.57'




                                                                                                    N2°24'00"E
           S0°00'00"E




                                                                                                     271.27'
                        270.93'




                                                                    22-17-402-004
                                                                           4.521 ACRES



                                                                  N89°28'00"E
                                                                      721.21'




Prepared: October 24, 2022
                                       WOODSTOCK MEADOWS PARK                                        Prepared by the Office of:
                                        1060 E. HYLAND LAKE DRIVE
                                         QUITCLAIM DEED - 4030:Q
                                                           Prepared for:
                                                                                                     2001 S. State St. #N1-400
                                  Section 17, T. 2S., R. 1E., S.L.B.&M.        Drawn by: CJL      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-4575
                                     Work Order No. W071422014                Checked by: SVK             (385) 468-8240
DƵƌƌĂǇŝƚǇWĂƌŬƐ
tŽŽĚƐƚŽĐŬĂŶĚZŝǀĞƌǀŝĞǁWĂƌŬƐ
ŽƐƚŶĂůǇƐŝƐƚŽďƌŝŶŐƚŽΗDƵƌƌĂǇΗ^ƚĂŶĚĂƌĚƐ


tŽŽĚƐƚŽĐŬDĞĂĚŽǁƐWĂƌŬͲϭϬϲϬ,ǇůĂŶĚ>ĂŬĞƌ
                                                    DĂŶĚĂƚŽƌǇ
                                                    hƉŐƌĂĚĞƐ
DŝŶŽƌƌĞƉĂŝƌƐͬƐƉƌŝŶŬůĞƌ
ĐŽŶƚƌŽůůĞƌƐͬŬĞǇƐͬůŽĐŬƐͬŶĞĞĚĞĚůĂŶĚƐĐĂƉŝŶŐͬĞƚĐ͘   ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                                 

                                                      ƌŝƚŝĐĂů
                                                     ƵƉŐƌĂĚĞƐ                  zĞĂƌϮ                 zĞĂƌϯ              zĞĂƌϰ                dŽƚĂů
/WWůĂŶ
WůĂǇŐƌŽƵŶĚ                                        ΨϯϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                                                 Ψ ϯϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
ZĞƐƚƌŽŽŵ                                                                                                           Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
WĂǀŝůŝŽŶ                                                                                             Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
WĂƚŚ>ŝŐŚƚŝŶŐ                                     ΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                                                Ψ ϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
dŽƚĂů/WhƉŐƌĂĚĞƐ                          ΨϯϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                   Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ Ψ ϭ͕ϯϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ


dŽƚĂůhƉŐƌĂĚĞƐtŽŽĚƐƚŽĐŬWĂƌŬ                     ΨϯϳϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ         ΨͲ       ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ       ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ       Ψϭ͕ϯϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ




ZŝǀĞƌǀŝĞǁWĂƌŬͲϱϴϰϰ^ϳϬϬt                                                                                                         
                                                    DĂŶĚĂƚŽƌǇ
                                                    hƉŐƌĂĚĞƐ
DŝŶŽƌƌĞƉĂŝƌƐͬƐƉƌŝŶŬůĞƌ
ĐŽŶƚƌŽůůĞƌƐͬŬĞǇƐͬůŽĐŬƐͬůŝŐŚƚƐͬƚĞŶŶŝƐƉŽůĞƐĂŶĚ
ŶĞƚƐͬŶĞĞĚĞĚůĂŶĚƐĐĂƉŝŶŐͬĞƚĐ͘                     ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
                                            ƌŝƚŝĐĂů
                                           ƵƉŐƌĂĚĞƐ            zĞĂƌϮ             zĞĂƌϯ                zĞĂƌϰ                dŽƚĂů
/WƉůĂŶ
WůĂǇŐƌŽƵŶĚ                              ΨϰϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                                                  Ψ ϰϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
WĂǀŝůŝŽŶ                                                     Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                               Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
WĂƚŚ>ŝŐŚƚŝŶŐ                           ΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                                                 Ψ ϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
dŽƚĂůƐ                                  ΨϰϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ Ψ Ͳ         Ψ Ͳ   Ψ ϵϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ

dŽƚĂůhƉŐƌĂĚĞƐZŝǀĞƌǀŝĞǁWĂƌŬ           Ψϰϲϱ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ     ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ    Ψ Ͳ   Ψ Ͳ   ΨϵϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ



ŽŵďŝŶĞĚtŽŽĚƐƚŽĐŬĂŶĚZŝǀĞƌǀŝĞǁWĂƌŬƐ
                                           zĞĂƌϭ             zĞĂƌϮ           zĞĂƌϯ               zĞĂƌϰ                  dŽƚĂů
hƉŐƌĂĚĞƚŽDƵƌƌĂǇ^ƚĂŶĚĂƌĚƐ        Ψϴϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ         ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ       ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ           ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ           ΨϮ͕ϯϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ


zĞĂƌůǇDĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞŽƐƚƐ
DĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞƐƵƉƉůŝĞƐ              Ψ ϭϲ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
WĂƌƚƚŝŵĞǁĂŐĞƐΘƚĂǆĞƐ            Ψ ϮϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
hƚŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
zĞĂƌůǇDĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞŽƐƚƐ   Ψ ϯϲ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
Riverview Park
Woodstock Park
Business Item #2
                                    Mayor's Office

                                    Agreement accepting transfer of
                                    Woodstock Meadows Park

                                    Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗February 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Consider an Interlocal Agreement accepting the transfer of
Mayor Brett Hales        Woodstock Meadows Park from Salt Lake County to Murray City
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider approval of Resolution and Agreement
801-264-2600
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Resolution, Agreement, Supporting documentation
Doug Hill

                    Budget Impact
                         Approximately $20,000 + utilities annually. Capital
                         Improvements as funded.

                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        Salt Lake County owns and maintains Woodstock Meadows Park
Presentation             located at 1060 East Hyland Lake Drive in Murray. Salt Lake
                         County is willing to transfer ownership to Murray City. An
10 Minutes               Interlocal Agreement is required to formalize the transfer. A cost
Is This Time             analysis to maintain and upgrade the park to Murray's standards
                         is attached.
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
February 3, 2023
                          RESOLUTION NO. ___________


      A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE TRANSFER OF WOODSTOCK
      MEADOWS PARK FROM SALT LAKE COUNTY TO MURRAY CITY

       WHEREAS, Salt Lake County owns and operates Woodstock Meadows Park,
located at approximately 1060 East Hyland Lake Drive and within Murray City
boundaries; and

     WHEREAS, the County is desirous to transfer the ownership and maintenance of
Woodstock Meadows Park; and

        WHEREAS, the City believes the transfer of Woodstock Meadows Park, and
City’s ownership and maintenance, will enhance the public’s recreation and enjoyment
within the City; and
      WHEREAS, the Council believes the transfer to be in the public interest and
complies with applicable law; and

      WHEREAS, the City desires to accept the transfer of Woodstock Meadows Park
from Salt Lake County; and

       WHEREAS, the County and the City have prepared an interlocal agreement to
formalize the transfer;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council as
follows:

      1. It hereby accepts the transfer of Woodstock Meadows Park from Salt Lake
         County; and

      2. It approves the interlocal agreement, in substantially the form attached hereto.


      DATED this _____ day of _________________, 2023.


                                        MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                        ___________________________________
                                        Gary Hrechkosy, Chair


ATTEST
_____________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                                                    County Contract No.
                                                    DA’s Contract No. 22CIV001547

                     Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
         THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (“Agreement”), is made
effective this __ day of ________, 2023, by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body
corporate and politic of the state of Utah (“County”) and MURRAY CITY, a municipal corporation
of the State of Utah (“Murray”). County and Murray may each be referred to herein individually as
a “Party” and jointly as the “Parties.”

                                         RECITALS

       WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-202 provides that any two or more public
agencies may enter into an agreement with one another for joint or cooperative actions; and

       WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-214 provides that any public agency may convey
property to or acquire property from any other public agencies for consideration as may be
agreed upon; and

        WHEREAS, Murray and County are public agencies as contemplated in the above
referenced sections of the Utah Code (more specifically referred to as UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-
101, et seq. - Interlocal Cooperation Act); and

      WHEREAS, the conveyance of property provided herein is an interest in real property as
contemplated in the Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

        WHEREAS, County owns several parcels of real property known as Riverview Park,
located at approximately 5844 South 700 West, Murray, Salt Lake County, State of Utah 84107
(Parcel Nos. 21-14-426-032-0000, 21-14-426-019-0000, 21-14-426-031-0000, and as further
described in the Quitclaim Deed attached hereto as Exhibit A), which is real property in the
public use as a public park; and

        WHEREAS, County also owns several parcels of real property known as Woodstock
Meadows Park, located at approximately 1036 East and 1060 East Hyland Lake Dr., Murray,
Salt Lake County, State of Utah 84121 (Parcel Nos. 22-17-402-004-0000, 22-17-402-003-0000,
and as further described in the Quitclaim Deed attached hereto as Exhibit B), which is in the
public use as a public park; and

        WHEREAS, Riverview Park, and Woodstock Meadows Park, are collectively referred to
herein as the “Parks”; and

       WHEREAS, County desires to formally transfer and convey the Parks to Murray, and
Murray desires to formally take and receive the Parks from County, for the purposes and on the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
                                         AGREEMENT
        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises set forth herein, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and legal sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the
Parties hereby agree as follows:

1.      Conveyance. County shall convey the Parks to Murray via quitclaim deeds (hereinafter
“Quitclaim Deeds”), for the purpose of operating and maintaining neighborhood parks. Murray
shall be solely responsible for maintaining the Parks and shall repair or replace improvements
thereon as necessary to maintain their current function and use.

2.      Consideration. County and Murray agree that in consideration of the mutual benefit
afforded the citizens of Murray and County, the restrictions on use identified in Section 3, and 4,
and the exchange of agreed upon consideration in accordance with Section 11-13-214 of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, County will convey the Parks to Murray as outlined herein.

3.     Use Restriction. The Parks shall be used by Murray solely for public parks:

           a. The Quitclaim Deeds conveying the Parks shall include a perpetual restriction
              requiring the Parks to be used by Murray or its successors in interest solely as
              public parks or open spaces, and in the event Murray ceases using any portion of
              the Parks as a public park or open space, the Parks will revert to County in its
              entirety. The form of the Quitclaim Deeds for each individual park is attached
              hereto as Exhibits A and B respectively.

4.      Land Water Conservation Funds. It appears that the Parks were acquired or improved
using Land Water Conservation Funds. As a result, the Parties agree that the following limitation
of use shall apply and shall be set forth in the Quitclaim Deeds;

           a. This Property has been acquired or developed with federal financial assistance
              provided by the National Park Service through the Land and Water Conservation
              Fund program in accordance with the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of
              1965, as amended (Public Law 88-5778; currently codified at 54 U.S.C. 2003 et
              seq.). Pursuant to a requirement of that law, this Property may not be converted to
              other than public outdoor recreation uses (whether by transfer, sale, or in any
              other manner) without the express written approval of the Secretary of the
              Interior. By law, the Secretary of the Interior shall approve such conversion only
              if the Secretary finds it to be in accordance with the then existing statewide
              comprehensive outdoor recreation plan and only on such conditions as the
              Secretary considers necessary to ensure the substitution of other recreation
              properties of at least equal fair market value and of reasonably equivalent
              usefulness and location.

5.     Operation of the Parks. Upon transfer of the Parks to Murray, Murray shall be solely
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the Parks, and Murray shall indemnify County
from and against all liabilities, claims, damages, losses, suits, judgments, causes of action, liens,



                                                  2
fines, penalties, costs, and expenses (including, but not limited to, court costs, attorneys’ fees,
and costs of investigation) directly or indirectly arising out of, caused by, or resulting from, in
whole or in part, Murray’s operation and maintenance of the Parks or any act or omission of
Murray, any independent contractor retained by Murray, or anyone directly or indirectly
employed by them, while working on and/or maintaining the Parks.

6.       Duration and Termination. This Agreement shall take effect upon execution and
terminate upon the performance by the Parties of all the obligations described herein. The
Parties intend that the conveyance of the Parks shall be accomplished promptly. Any provision
of this Agreement which contemplates performance subsequent to the exchange of title to the
Parks shall survive such exchange of title and shall continue in full force and effect until fully
satisfied, but in no event shall this Agreement have a term longer than fifty (50) years.

7.     Additional Interlocal Cooperation Act Provisions. In compliance with the
requirements of the Interlocal Cooperation Act and other applicable law:

           a. No Interlocal Entity. The Parties agree that they do not by this Agreement create
              an interlocal entity.

           b. Joint Board. As required by UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-207, the Parties agree that
              the cooperative undertaking under this Agreement shall be administered by a joint
              board consisting of the County’s Mayor or designee and the Murray’s Manager or
              designee. Any real or personal property used in the Parties’ cooperative
              undertaking herein shall be acquired, held, and disposed in accordance with this
              Agreement.

           c. Financing Joint Cooperative Undertaking and Establishing Budget. There is no
              financing of joint or cooperative undertaking and no budget shall be established or
              maintained.

           d. Attorney Review. This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and
              compliance with applicable law by the authorized attorneys for County and
              Murray in accordance with UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-202.5.

           e. Copies. Duly executed original counterparts of this Agreement shall be filed with
              the keeper of records of each Party, pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-209.

           f. Manner of Acquiring, Holding or Disposing of Property. The Parks shall be
              acquired, held or disposed of pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and unless
              agreed to herein shall not be used in a joint or cooperative undertaking.

8.     General Provisions. The following provisions are also integral parts of this Agreement:

           a. Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the
              benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective Parties hereto.




                                                  3
b. Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference purposes
   only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any
   way the meaning, scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this
   Agreement or the intent hereof.

c. Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts with
   the same effect as if the signatures upon any counterpart were upon the same
   instrument. All signed counterparts shall be deemed to be one original.

d. Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should any
   provision hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable,
   unenforceable, or invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this
   Agreement.

e. Waiver of Breach. Any waiver by either Party of any breach of any kind or
   character whatsoever by the other, whether such be direct or implied, shall not be
   construed as a continuing waiver of or consent to any subsequent breach of this
   Agreement.

f. Cumulative Remedies. The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto shall be
   construed cumulatively, and none of such rights and remedies shall be exclusive
   of, or in lieu or limitation of, any other right, remedy, or priority allowed by law.

g. Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument in
   writing signed by the Parties hereto.

h. Time of Essence. Time is of the essence in this Agreement.

i. Interpretation. This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed, and enforced
   according to the substantive laws of the state of Utah.

j. Notice. Any notice or other communication required or permitted to be given
   hereunder shall be deemed to have been received (a) upon personal delivery or
   actual receipt thereof or (b) within three (3) days after such notice is deposited in
   the United States mail, certified mail, postage prepaid, and addressed to the
   Parties at their respective addresses.

k. Exhibits and Recitals. The Recitals set forth above and all exhibits to this
   Agreement are incorporated herein to the same extent as if such items were set
   forth herein in their entirety within the body of this Agreement.

l. Governmental Immunity. Both Parties are governmental entities under the
   Governmental Immunity Act, UTAH CODE ANN. § 63G-7-101, et seq. (the
   “Immunity Act”). Consistent with the terms of the Immunity Act, the Parties agree
   that each Party is responsible and liable for any wrongful or negligent acts which
   it commits or which are committed by its agents, officials, or employees. Neither



                                      4
              Party waives any defenses or limits of liability otherwise available under the
              Immunity Act and all other applicable law, and both Parties maintain all
              privileges, immunities, and other rights granted by the Immunity Act and all other
              applicable law.

           m. Ethical Standards. The Parties hereto represent that they have not: (a) provided an
              illegal gift or payoff to any officer or employee, or former officer or employee,
              or to any relative or business entity of an officer or employee, or relative or
              business entity of a former officer or employee of the other party hereto; (b)
              retained any person to solicit or secure this Agreement upon any contract,
              agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or
              contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies
              established for the purpose of securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical
              standards set forth in State statute or County’s Ethics, Gifts and Honoraria
              ordinance (Chapter 2.07, SALT LAKE COUNTY CODE OF ORDINANCES [2001]); or
              (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promise that they will not knowingly
              influence, any officer or employee or former officer or employee to breach any of
              the ethical standards set forth in State statute or County ordinances.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Murray, by resolution duly adopted by its Council, caused
this Agreement to be signed by its Mayor and attested by its Recorder; and County, by resolution
of its County Council, caused this Agreement to be signed by the Salt Lake County Mayor, or
his/her designee, his or her signature being duly notarized.

                                [Signature Page Follows Below]




                                                5
                                            SALT LAKE COUNTY


                                            By: ______________________________________
                                                Mayor or Designee
Recommended for Approval:

____________________________________
Director of Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation

Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:

____________________________________
John E. Diaz
Deputy District Attorney
Salt Lake County
                                            MURRAY CITY, a Utah Municipal Corporation


                                            By _______________________________________
                                               Mayor or Designee

ATTEST:

___________________________________
Murray’s Recorder

Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:

_____________________________________
Murray’s Attorney

STATE OF UTAH                   )
                               :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On this __day of __________, 2023, personally appeared before me _______________, who
being duly sworn, did say that (s)he is the ___________________ of Salt Lake County, Office of
Mayor, and that the foregoing instrument was signed on behalf of Salt Lake County, by authority
of law.



                                                          NOTARY PUBLIC
  [SEAL]                                             Residing in Salt Lake County




                                               6
          Exhibit A
(Riverview Park Quitclaim Deed)




               7
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:
Salt Lake County
Salt Lake County Real Estate Manager
2001 South State Street, S3-110
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

                  Tax I.D. Nos. 21-14-426-032-0000, 21-14-426-019-0000, 21-14-426-031-0000

                                  QUITCLAIM DEED
        SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah, (hereinafter
referred to as “Grantor”), for the sum of ten dollars ($10.00), and other good and valuable
consideration, hereby quitclaims to Murray City, a body corporate and politic of the State of
Utah, (hereinafter referred to as “Grantee”), the following described parcels of land commonly
known as Riverview Park, located at 5844 South 700 East, Murray City, Salt Lake County, State
of Utah 84107 (the “Property”), and as more specifically described in Exhibit A, attached hereto
and incorporated herein by this reference.

Perpetual Restriction. The Property is to be used by Grantee or its successors in interest solely as
a public park or open space. If Grantee ceases using any portion of the Property as a public park
or open space, the Property will revert to Grantor in its entirety.

Notice of Limitation of Use. This Property has been acquired or developed with federal financial
assistance provided by the National Park Service through the Land and Water Conservation Fund
program in accordance with the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended
(Public Law 88-5778; currently codified at 54 U.S.C. 2003 et seq.). Pursuant to a requirement of
that law, this Property may not be converted to other than public outdoor recreation uses
(whether by transfer, sale, or in any other manner) without the express written approval of the
Secretary of the Interior. By law, the Secretary of the Interior shall approve such conversion only
if the Secretary finds it to be in accordance with the then existing statewide comprehensive
outdoor recreation plan and only on such conditions as the Secretary considers necessary to
ensure the substitution of other recreation properties of at least equal fair market value and of
reasonably equivalent usefulness and location.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Grantor has caused this Quitclaim Deed to be signed and its
official seal to be affixed hereto by its duly authorized officer this __ day of
__________________, 2023.


                                      [Signature Page Follows Below]
                                       SALT LAKE COUNTY


                                       By_______________________________________
                                             Mayor or Designee

SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK


______________________________
County Clerk



STATE OF UTAH                  )
                               : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE            )

On this __ day of ________________, 2023, personally appeared before me __________________, who
being duly sworn, did say that s/he is the _____________________________ of Salt Lake County, Office
of Mayor, and that the foregoing instrument was signed on behalf of Salt Lake County, by authority of
law.

                                              ____________________________________
                                              NOTARY PUBLIC
                                              Residing in Salt Lake County

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On this __ day of ____________, 2023, personally appeared before me ___________________,
who being duly sworn, did say that s/he is the County Clerk of Salt Lake County, and that the
foregoing instrument was signed in his/her official capacity, and by authority of law.

                                              ____________________________________
                                              NOTARY PUBLIC
                                              Residing in Salt Lake County


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:

_____________________________
John E. Diaz
Deputy District Attorney
Salt Lake County




                                                 2
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                  (Legal Description)

Parcel 21-14-426-019
Beginning S 0°14'26" E 675.76 feet & S 89°45'34" W 33 feet from the East Quarter
Corner of Section 14, T 2S, R 1W, Salt Lake Base & Meridian; thence West 212.57 feet;
thence North 207.42 feet; thence N 89°59' E 80.99 feet; thence S 0°14'26" E 144.54
feet; thence N 89°41'35" E 130.72 feet; thence S 0°14'26" E 65.02 feet to the point of
beginning. Contains 0.58 acre more or less.

Parcel 21-14-426-031
Beginning S 0°14'26" E 468.07 feet & S 88°59' W 244.7 feet from the East Quarter
Corner of Section 14, T 2S, R 1W, Salt Lake Base & Meridian; thence North 3.87 feet;
thence S 88°59' W 750.1 feet more or less; thence South 4.48 feet more or less; thence
N 88°56'07" E 750.12 feet more or less to the point of beginning. Contains 0.07 acre
more or less.

Parcel 21-14-426-032
Beginning S 0°14'40" E 675.9 feet & West 245.57 feet from the East Quarter Corner of
Section 14, T 2S, R 1W, Salt Lake Base & Meridian; thence West 277.15 feet; thence
South 200.56 feet; thence West 472.86 feet more or less; thence North 389.97 feet
more or less; thence N 88°59' E 750.42 feet more or less; thence South 202.55 feet to
the point of beginning. Contains 5.55 acres more or less.




                                          3
                                                                                                                                       LINE TABLE
                                                                                                                              LINE #   LENGTH      BEARING

                                                                                                                                L1     212.57'       WEST

                                                                                                                               L2      207.42'      NORTH

                                                                                                                               L3       80.99'   N 89° 59' 00" E

                                                                                                                               L4      144.54'   S 0° 14' 26" E

                                                                                                                               L5      130.72'   N 89° 41' 35" E

                                                                                                                               L6       65.02'   S 0° 14' 26" E




                                                                                                    S88°59'00"W       21-14-426-019




                                                                                                                                                     700 WEST
                                                            21-14-426-031                           750.10'             0.58 ACRE
                              S0°00'00"E
                              4.48'                           0.07 ACRE                                                L3
                                                                                                  N0°00'00"E
                                                             N88°59'00"E                               3.87'




                                                                                                                              L4
                                                             750.42'




                                                                                                               L2
                                                                                                  S0°00'00"E
                                                                                                                                       L5
                                                                                                    202.55'
                                     RIVERVIEW PARK
       N0°00'00"E




                                                                                                                                                   L6
                    389.97'




                                                                                                   277.15'
                                       5.55 ACRES                                                                               L1
                                                                                                 N90°00'00"W
                                                                                    S0°00'00"E




                                      21-14-426-032
                                                                          200.56'




                                                                                                                  5845 SOUTH



                                             472.86'
                                         N90°00'00"W



                                     GREENOAKS DRIVE (5900 SOUTH)




Prepared: October 21, 2022
                                             RIVERVIEW PARK                                                       Prepared by the Office of:
                                               5844 S. 700 W.
                                          QUITCLAIM DEED - 4031:Q
                                                         Prepared for:
                                                                                                                  2001 S. State St. #N1-400
                                Section 14, T. 2S., R. 1W., S.L.B.&M.     Drawn by: CJL                        Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-4575
                                   Work Order No. W071422014             Checked by: SVK                               (385) 468-8240
              Exhibit B
(Woodstock Meadows Park Quitclaim Deed)




                   8
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:
Salt Lake County
Salt Lake County Real Estate Manager
2001 South State Street, S3-110
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

                                             Tax I.D. Nos. 22-17-402-004-0000, 22-17-402-003-0000

                                      QUITCLAIM DEED
         SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah, (hereinafter referred to
as “Grantor”), for the sum of ten dollars ($10.00), and other good and valuable consideration, hereby
quitclaims to Murray City, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah, (hereinafter referred to as
“Grantee”), the following described parcels of land commonly known as Woodstock Meadows Park,
located at 1036 East and 1060 East Hyland Lake Dr., Murray City, Salt Lake County, State of Utah 84121
(the “Property”), and as more specifically described in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein
by this reference.

Perpetual Restriction. The Property is to be used by Grantee or its successors in interest solely as a public
park or open space. If Grantee ceases using any portion of the Property as a public park or open space, the
Property will revert to Grantor in its entirety.

Notice of Limitation of Use. This Property has been acquired or developed with federal financial
assistance provided by the National Park Service through the Land and Water Conservation Fund
program in accordance with the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (Public
Law 88-5778; currently codified at 54 U.S.C. 2003 et seq.). Pursuant to a requirement of that law, this
Property may not be converted to other than public outdoor recreation uses (whether by transfer, sale, or
in any other manner) without the express written approval of the Secretary of the Interior. By law, the
Secretary of the Interior shall approve such conversion only if the Secretary finds it to be in accordance
with the then existing statewide comprehensive outdoor recreation plan and only on such conditions as
the Secretary considers necessary to ensure the substitution of other recreation properties of at least equal
fair market value and of reasonably equivalent usefulness and location.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Grantor has caused this Quitclaim Deed to be signed and its official
seal to be affixed hereto by its duly authorized officer this __ day of __________________, 2023.


                                          [Signature Page Follows Below]
                                       SALT LAKE COUNTY


                                       By_______________________________________
                                             Mayor or Designee

SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK


______________________________
County Clerk



STATE OF UTAH                  )
                               : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE            )

On this __ day of ________________, 2023, personally appeared before me __________________, who
being duly sworn, did say that s/he is the _____________________________ of Salt Lake County, Office
of Mayor, and that the foregoing instrument was signed on behalf of Salt Lake County, by authority of
law.

                                              ____________________________________
                                              NOTARY PUBLIC
                                              Residing in Salt Lake County

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On this __ day of ____________, 2023, personally appeared before me ___________________,
who being duly sworn, did say that s/he is the County Clerk of Salt Lake County, and that the
foregoing instrument was signed in his/her official capacity, and by authority of law.

                                              ____________________________________
                                              NOTARY PUBLIC
                                              Residing in Salt Lake County


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:

_____________________________
John E. Diaz
Deputy District Attorney
Salt Lake County




                                                 2
                                         EXHIBIT A
                                      (Legal Description)

Parcel 22-17-402-003
Commencing 24.8 rods South & 5.42 rods West from the center of Section 17, T 2S, R
1E, Salt Lake Base & Meridian; and running thence South 16.42 rods; thence East
46.42 rods; thence N 2°24' E 16.2 rods; thence West 46.42 rods to the point of
beginning. Also, commencing at the Southeast Corner of Lot 33, Hyland Lake
Subdivision, and running thence North 1 foot; thence East 452.87 feet; thence South 1
foot; thence West 452.87 feet to the point of beginning. Contains 4.74 acres.

Parcel 22-17-402-004
Commencing 41.22 rods South & 5.42 rods West from the center of Section 17, T 2S, R
1E, Salt Lake Base & Meridian; and running thence South 16.42 rods; thence East
46.42 rods; thence N 2°24' E 16.2 rods; thence West 46.42 rods to the point of
beginning. Contains 4.74 acres.




                                               3
                                              S0°00'00"E
                                                   1.00'

                                     S89°28'00"W                             S89°28'00"W HYLAND LAKE DRIVE
                                         291.06'                               452.87'




                                                                                                      N2°24'00"E
           S0°00'00"E




                                                                                                       272.30'
                                                      WOODSTOCK MEADOWS PARK
                        270.93'




                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                              E DRIV
                                                                    22-17-402-003
                                                                     4.602 ACRES




                                                                                                                                        ID
                                                                   N89°28'00"E




                                                                                                                                  LAKES
                                                                          732.57'




                                                                                                    N2°24'00"E
           S0°00'00"E




                                                                                                     271.27'
                        270.93'




                                                                    22-17-402-004
                                                                           4.521 ACRES



                                                                  N89°28'00"E
                                                                      721.21'




Prepared: October 24, 2022
                                       WOODSTOCK MEADOWS PARK                                        Prepared by the Office of:
                                        1060 E. HYLAND LAKE DRIVE
                                         QUITCLAIM DEED - 4030:Q
                                                           Prepared for:
                                                                                                     2001 S. State St. #N1-400
                                  Section 17, T. 2S., R. 1E., S.L.B.&M.        Drawn by: CJL      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-4575
                                     Work Order No. W071422014                Checked by: SVK             (385) 468-8240
DƵƌƌĂǇŝƚǇWĂƌŬƐ
tŽŽĚƐƚŽĐŬĂŶĚZŝǀĞƌǀŝĞǁWĂƌŬƐ
ŽƐƚŶĂůǇƐŝƐƚŽďƌŝŶŐƚŽΗDƵƌƌĂǇΗ^ƚĂŶĚĂƌĚƐ


tŽŽĚƐƚŽĐŬDĞĂĚŽǁƐWĂƌŬͲϭϬϲϬ,ǇůĂŶĚ>ĂŬĞƌ
                                                    DĂŶĚĂƚŽƌǇ
                                                    hƉŐƌĂĚĞƐ
DŝŶŽƌƌĞƉĂŝƌƐͬƐƉƌŝŶŬůĞƌ
ĐŽŶƚƌŽůůĞƌƐͬŬĞǇƐͬůŽĐŬƐͬŶĞĞĚĞĚůĂŶĚƐĐĂƉŝŶŐͬĞƚĐ͘   ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                                 

                                                      ƌŝƚŝĐĂů
                                                     ƵƉŐƌĂĚĞƐ                  zĞĂƌϮ                 zĞĂƌϯ              zĞĂƌϰ                dŽƚĂů
/WWůĂŶ
WůĂǇŐƌŽƵŶĚ                                        ΨϯϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                                                 Ψ ϯϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
ZĞƐƚƌŽŽŵ                                                                                                           Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
WĂǀŝůŝŽŶ                                                                                             Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
WĂƚŚ>ŝŐŚƚŝŶŐ                                     ΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                                                Ψ ϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
dŽƚĂů/WhƉŐƌĂĚĞƐ                          ΨϯϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                   Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ Ψ ϭ͕ϯϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ


dŽƚĂůhƉŐƌĂĚĞƐtŽŽĚƐƚŽĐŬWĂƌŬ                     ΨϯϳϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ         ΨͲ       ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ       ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ       Ψϭ͕ϯϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ




ZŝǀĞƌǀŝĞǁWĂƌŬͲϱϴϰϰ^ϳϬϬt                                                                                                         
                                                    DĂŶĚĂƚŽƌǇ
                                                    hƉŐƌĂĚĞƐ
DŝŶŽƌƌĞƉĂŝƌƐͬƐƉƌŝŶŬůĞƌ
ĐŽŶƚƌŽůůĞƌƐͬŬĞǇƐͬůŽĐŬƐͬůŝŐŚƚƐͬƚĞŶŶŝƐƉŽůĞƐĂŶĚ
ŶĞƚƐͬŶĞĞĚĞĚůĂŶĚƐĐĂƉŝŶŐͬĞƚĐ͘                     ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
                                            ƌŝƚŝĐĂů
                                           ƵƉŐƌĂĚĞƐ            zĞĂƌϮ             zĞĂƌϯ                zĞĂƌϰ                dŽƚĂů
/WƉůĂŶ
WůĂǇŐƌŽƵŶĚ                              ΨϰϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                                                  Ψ ϰϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
WĂǀŝůŝŽŶ                                                     Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                               Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
WĂƚŚ>ŝŐŚƚŝŶŐ                           ΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ                                                                 Ψ ϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
dŽƚĂůƐ                                  ΨϰϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ Ψ ϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ Ψ Ͳ         Ψ Ͳ   Ψ ϵϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ

dŽƚĂůhƉŐƌĂĚĞƐZŝǀĞƌǀŝĞǁWĂƌŬ           Ψϰϲϱ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ     ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ    Ψ Ͳ   Ψ Ͳ   ΨϵϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ



ŽŵďŝŶĞĚtŽŽĚƐƚŽĐŬĂŶĚZŝǀĞƌǀŝĞǁWĂƌŬƐ
                                           zĞĂƌϭ             zĞĂƌϮ           zĞĂƌϯ               zĞĂƌϰ                  dŽƚĂů
hƉŐƌĂĚĞƚŽDƵƌƌĂǇ^ƚĂŶĚĂƌĚƐ        Ψϴϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ         ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ       ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ           ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ           ΨϮ͕ϯϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ


zĞĂƌůǇDĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞŽƐƚƐ
DĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞƐƵƉƉůŝĞƐ              Ψ ϭϲ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
WĂƌƚƚŝŵĞǁĂŐĞƐΘƚĂǆĞƐ            Ψ ϮϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
hƚŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
zĞĂƌůǇDĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞŽƐƚƐ   Ψ ϯϲ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ
Riverview Park
Woodstock Park
Adjournment
