Council Meeting
January17, 2023
                        Murray City Municipal Council
                             Notice of Meeting
                                      January 17, 2023
                                     Murray City Center
                         5025 South State Street, Murray, Utah 84107



Meeting Agenda

2:15 p.m.      Committee of the Whole – Conference Room #107
               Council Chair conducting

Approval of Minutes
      None scheduled.

Discussion Items
    1. Discussion on Net Metering Policy and Supply Cost Adjustment. – Blaine Haacke and
       Matt Youngs (60 minutes)
    2. Discussion on an ordinance amending Section 17.78.050 of the Murray City Municipal
       Code relating to the minimum area required for detached Accessory Dwelling Units. –
       Susan Nixon and Jared Hall presenting (30 minutes)
    3. Discussion on a resolution accepting a grant award from the Department of Public
       Safety for the State of Utah and authorizing the execution of a Memorandum of
       Understanding between the City and the Department of Public Safety for the State of
       Utah relating to first responder mental health services. – Craig Burnett (10 minutes)

Adjournment

The public may view the Council Meeting via the live stream at www.murraycitylive.com or
https://www.facebook.com/Murraycityutah/. Those wishing to have their comments read into the record
may send an email by 5:00 p.m. the day prior to the meeting date to city.council@murray.utah.gov.
Comments are limited to less than three minutes (approximately 300 words for emails) and must include
your name and address.

6:30 p.m.      Council Meeting – Council Chambers
               Pam Cotter conducting.

Opening Ceremonies
      Call to Order
      Pledge of Allegiance

Approval of Minutes
      Council Meeting – December 6, 2022
      Special Council Meeting – December 12, 2022

Special Recognition
Murray City Council Agenda
January 17, 2023                                                                                                                 2

    1. Murray City Employee of the Month, Omar Limon, Senior Recreation Center Chef – Pam
       Cotter and Kim Sorensen presenting.

Citizen Comments
        Comments will be limited to three minutes, step to the microphone, state your name
        and city of residence, and fill out the required form.

Consent Agenda
      None scheduled.

Public Hearings
       Staff, sponsor presentations and public comment will be given prior to Council action on
       the following matter.

    1. Consider an ordinance amending the city’s Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget. Brenda Moore
       presenting.

Business Items
   1. Consider a resolution accepting a grant award from the Department of Public Safety for
       the State of Utah and authorizing the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding
       between the City and the Department of Public Safety for the State of Utah relating to
       first responder mental health services. Craig Burnett presenting.
   2. Consider a resolution authorizing the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding
       between Unified Fire Authority and Murray City relating to reimbursement of overtime
       or backfill costs incurred by Murray City Fire Department personnel to maintain
       capability to respond to hazardous materials and other serious incidents. Steve Olson
       presenting.
   3. Consider a resolution approving an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City
       and Murray City School District (“District”) relating to music education and instruction.
       Doug Hill presenting.

Mayor’s Report and Questions

Adjournment
                                                            NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City
Recorder (801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the
other Council Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers will be able to hear all discussions.

On Friday, January 13, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of
the Murray City Center, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City
Recorder. A copy of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing
website at http://pmn.utah.gov .
Murray City Council Agenda
January 17, 2023                                             3




                             Jennifer Kennedy
                             Council Executive Director
                             Murray City Municipal Council
 Committee
of the Whole
Discussion
   Items
Discussion
 Item #1
                                    Power Department

                                    Discussion of Net Metering Policy
                                    and Supply Cost Adjustment

                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 17, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Discussion of Net Metering Policy and Supply Cost Adjustment
Blaine Haacke            (SCA)

                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Discussion Item Only
801-264-2715
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         #1. Solar Presentation Exec Summary 2022
Blaine Haacke
                         #2. Schedule 30 (SCA) Rate
Matt Youngs
                    Budget Impact
                         None



                    Description of this /tem
                         The Power Department will discuss two separate and distinct
Required Time for
                         items in the Committe of the Whole Meeting.
Presentation
                         The first item will be a department review of the status of solar
60 Minutes               panel installations throughout our service territory as well as
Is This Time             discuss the City's solar net metering rate. The net metering rate
Sensitive                is referred to as Schedule 35 and is publicly posted. It has been
                         several years since we have visited the rate and as more
No
                         photovoltaic panels are installed on rooftops in Murray City, the
Mayor’s Approval         Department sees the need to re-visit the subject. It is our intent,
                         as staff, to return to a Municipal Council meeting in the near
                         future, with a rate adjustment proposal. For now, we want to
                         familiarize the Council members with this issue and to garner
Date                     feedback and input before proposing changes and
December 29, 2022        modifications. Matt Youngs will lead this discussion.
ŽŶƚŝŶƵĞĚĨƌŽŵWĂŐĞϭ͗
The second item of discussion, led by Blaine Haacke, is regarding another type of power rate, a
supplemental rate, that is rarely exercised but is nevertheless adopted in the City's rate base. The
Supply Cost Adjustment (SCA) is designed to assist the department 'weather' larger than expected
resource costs. The SCA, which was adopted at least 15 years ago, has been used sparingly and
only when the City's power costs amassed larger than expected monthly or seasonal power costs.
The SCA is designed to recoup some of those power plant costs as prices spike and reach larger
than expected levels. Subsequent monthly customer billing charges are used to replenish the
Resource fund during these times. The SCA is very common in the utility industry and is widely
used by Investor Owned Utilities as well as municipal systems, like ours. In the Committee of the
Whole meeting, staff will explain the Schedule 30 rate, review the history of that rate within
Murray and will then explain the process to modify or adjust that rate.

Each of the above items will refer to two attached items within the Council packet. The first
submittal is a one-page summary offering a definition of Net Metering. And the second
attachment is a copy of the Electric Service Schedule 30 (SCA) rate that Murray presently has.
Net Metering is a billing mechanism that
credits solar energy system owners for the
electricity they add to the electric grid. Elec-
tricity produced by a customer’s solar energy      x   Murray Net Metering Policy
system will ﬁrst be used by the customer to             went into eﬀect: July 2006
meet their energy needs. If more electricity is
                                                   x   Commercial Customers: 11
generated than needed, the electricity is ex-
ported to the grid. If the solar energy system     x   Residen al Customers: 251
does not produce enough electricity to meet        x   Installed Capacity: 1.6 MW
the customer’s energy needs, electricity is
used from the grid. A special net meter keeps      x   Average System Size: 6.1 kW
track of the electricity that ﬂows to and from
the customer’s residence.


                                                   Most solar energy systems will produce
                                                   more electricity than a customer needs
                                                   during the day in the summer months,
                                                   and less during the winter. Because of
                                                   this, it is common for customers to carry
                                                   energy credits into the winter months;
                                                   but these are typically used up by spring
                                                     me. To incen vize the installa on of so-
                                                   lar energy systems that match a custom-
                                                   er’s energy needs, most u li es reset
                                                   these energy credits in the spring me.
Murray provides customers with a 1:1               Murray resets these credits in April.
credit (retail rate avg. $0.09) for excess         However, it is very rare for a customer to
                                                   have energy credits in the spring, due to
electricity received from a customer’s so-
                                                   weather-related decrease in solar gener-
lar energy system. Most u li es have               a on and shorter days.
moved to credi ng at a reduced rate.
Rocky Mountain Power credits custom-
ers at about 6 cents/kWh (roughly half
their retail rate).
MUNICIPAL CODE: Chapter 15.20                                                          ORDINANCE: 06-44



                                 Electric Service Schedule 30
                                    Supply Cost Adjustment (SCA)

        PURPOSE:

         The purpose of this section is to enable the city to recover the actual costs incurred in generating
and purchasing electric power for use by its customers. The SCA amount is determined by comparing the
city's actual monthly power supply costs to an established base cost. If power supply costs significantly
exceed projections, a surcharge will be applied on the customer's applicable monthly bill, subject to
limitations imposed by the special conditions set forth in subsection D of this section.

1)      The SCA is capped at $0.005/kWh for an individual customer in any single month;

2)      The total recoverable amount during a single fiscal year cannot exceed two percent (2%) of the
        power department's total budgeted revenue;

3)      The minimum recoverable amount in any given month in order to activate an actual SCA
        collection from the customers is fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00);

4)      If the SCA is collected from customers for six (6) consecutive months, then the city council will
        review the SCA and other applicable rates; and

5)      Mayoral approval and notifying the city council is required prior to implementing an SCA
        collection from the customers.

        APPLICABILITY:

         The SCA is applicable to electric service furnished under all rate schedules incorporating this
Electric Service Schedule 30 - Supply Cost Adjustment.

        SCA FORMULA AND DEFINITIONS:

        The formula for the SCA shall be as follows:

         SCA = (S-B) × I + C
                      P

        Where:

        a.       SCA = Supply cost adjustment surcharge, expressed in $/kWh, to the nearest $0.00001,
                 and applied to all kWh sales to retail customers of the city for the applicable retail billing
                 month.

                                                  (continued)
EFFECTIVE: October 1, 2009                                                                       PAGE: 30.1
MUNICIPAL CODE: Chapter 15.20                                                   ORDINANCE: 06-44

                              Electric Service Schedule 30 - Continued



      b.      S = Actual system cost of supply, expressed in $/kWh, the core costs for all purchased and
              self-generated power for the applicable wholesale power procurement month, divided by
              the total system input energy.

      c.      B = Base cost of supply, the projected core cost per kWh of purchased and self-generated
              power and energy, currently established at $0.04500/kWh.

      d.      I = Total system input energy, expressed in kWh, the energy produced or purchased in
              association with the applicable wholesale power procurement month, multiplied by a line
              loss adjustment factor of 1.043 for system distribution and transmission line energy
              losses.

      e.      C = Carried forward amount, the dollar amount carried forward from previous months,
              either positive or negative, due to circumstances defined below in special conditions.

      f.      P = Projected energy sales, expressed in kWh, as determined by trending analysis for
              growth and seasonality, for the applicable retail billing month.

      SPECIAL CONDITIONS:

1.    The SCA surcharge shall be capped at $0.005/kWh in any one month with the remaining
      recoverable portion carried forward into succeeding months.
2.    The minimum recoverable amount in any given month will be fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
      Uncollected, but recoverable, amounts under fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) will be carried
      forward into future months' SCA analyses and calculations.
3.    Monthly SCA calculations may result in recoverable amounts not collected due to limitations
      detailed in this section. These uncollected amounts shall be tracked in an SCA "bank" as a debit.
      Monthly SCA calculations may also result in a negative amount, in which case it will be added to
      the "bank" as a credit. The net amount in the "bank" becomes the carried forward amount and is
      applied to future months' SCA calculations, except as outlined in subsection D4 of this section.
4.    In order to maintain accounting alignment with each fiscal year, at the end of the August retail
      customer billing period each year, but prior to the September SCA analysis and calculations, any
      credits that have been accrued by the "bank" will be zeroed out. Any remaining recoverable debits,
      which represent actual costs incurred, will be carried forward and be subject to the same recovery
      process as detailed throughout this section.
5.    The total recoverable amount during a single fiscal year will not exceed two percent (2%) of the
      power department's total budgeted revenue, unless approved by the Murray City municipal council
6.    Before an SCA surcharge is implemented, the city power department general manager or designee
      shall notify and receive approval from the mayor of the amount of the SCA surcharge and shall
      provide written notification to the Murray City municipal council of the amount of the surcharge.
7.    If an SCA surcharge is collected from the customers pursuant to this section for six (6)
      consecutive months, the Murray City municipal council shall review, in a duly agendad meeting,
      the reasons for the surcharges and consider the need to amend or modify electric service schedule
      30 and/or other electric service schedules.

EFFECTIVE: October 1, 2009                                                                PAGE: 30.2
Discussion
 Item #2
                                    Community & Economic
                                    Development
                                   Consider a Text Amendment for
                                   Detached Accessory Dwelling Units

                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 17, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Review an amendment to Sect 17.78.050.J. reducing the
Jared Hall               minimum area requirement for detached units to 10,000 sqft.

                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Approval of Text Amendment to reduce the minimum area for
801-270-2427             Detached Accessory Dwelling Units .
                    Attachments
Presenters
Susan Nixon              Presentation Slides
Jared Hall
                    Budget Impact
                         None.


                    Description of this /tem
                         This request from Peggy Imai is for a Text Amendment to Section
Required Time for
                         17.78.050.J to reduce the minimum area requirement for
Presentation
                         Detached Accessory Dwelling Units from 12, 000 sq.ft. to 10,000
30 Minutes               sqft.
Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 30, 2022
                           Murray City Corporation
                                NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING


       NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on the 7th day of February 2023, at the hour of
6:30 p.m. of said day in the Council Chambers of Murray City Center, 5025 South State
Street, Murray, Utah, the Murray City Municipal Council will hold and conduct a hearing
on and pertaining to a text amendment to section 17.78.050, of the Murray City
Municipal Code relating to detached accessory dwelling units.

      The purpose of this hearing is to receive public comment concerning the
proposed amendment as described above.


       DATED this 20th day of December 2023.

                                              MURRAY CITY CORPORATION


                                              ___________________________________
                                              Brooke Smith
                                              City Recorder



DATE OF PUBLICATION: January 27, 2023
PH23-02

Mailed to affected entities - UCA §10-9a-205(2)(a)
Posted on City Website – UCA §10-9a-205(2)(b)(ii)
Posted on the Utah Public Notice Website – UCA §10-9a-205(2)(c)(i)
                                ORDINANCE NO. _____


       AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 17.78.050 OF THE MURRAY
       CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO THE MINIMUM AREA
       REQUIRED FOR DETACHED ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
       (Applicant: Peggy Imai)

       Now, therefore, be it ordained by the Murray City Municipal Council as follows:

      Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to amend Section
17.78.050 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to the minimum area required for
detached accessory dwelling units.

       Section 2. Amendment. Section 17.78.050 of the Murray City Municipal Code
relating to the minimum area required for detached accessory dwelling units is hereby
amended to read as follows:

17.78.050: DETACHED ACCESSORY DWELLING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

  A. The property owner, which shall include titleholders and contract purchasers,
must occupy either the principal unit or the ADU, but not both, as their permanent
residence and at no time receive rent for the owner occupied unit. Application for an
ADU shall include evidence of owner occupancy as provided in section 17.78.020 of this
chapter.
  B. Only one ADU may be created per lot or property.
  C. ADUs are allowed on properties that are zoned to allow single-family dwellings as
a permitted use.
  D. The ADU shall conform to all applicable standards in the building, plumbing,
electrical, mechanical, fire, health, and any other applicable codes.
  E. Installing separate utility meters for the ADU is prohibited.
  F. A separate entrance to the ADU shall not be allowed on the front or corner lot side
yard. Any separate entrance shall be located to the side or rear of the principal
residence.
  G. The total area of the ADU shall be less than forty percent (40%) of the square
footage of the primary residence and in no case shall exceed one thousand (1,000)
square feet.
  H. Detached ADUs shall not contain more than two (2) bedrooms.
  I. In addition to the parking required for the primary unit, two (2) additional off street
parking spaces shall be provided. In no case shall fewer than four (4) total off street
parking spaces be provided. Any additional occupant vehicles shall be parked on site.
On street parking shall be reserved for visitors only.
  J. The minimum lot size required for construction of a detached ADU in all single-
family residential zones shall be twelve thousand (12,000)ten thousand (10,000) square
feet.
  K. Detached ADUs shall not be located in a front or corner lot side yard and shall
meet the same setbacks as required for the primary residence in the zone.
  L. Any detached ADU located in a required side yard must comply with the setbacks
for the principal residence, and shall have adequate facilities for all discharge from roof
and other drainage.
  M. Construction of a detached ADU shall not exceed the allowable lot or rear yard
coverage standard for the underlying zone or encroach into the required setbacks.
  N. Detached ADUs shall be compatible with the exterior color and materials of the
principal dwelling.
  O. The maximum height for detached ADUs is limited to one story and to twenty feet
(20') or the height of the principal structure, whichever is less.
  P. The total floor area of a detached structure containing an ADU shall not exceed
one thousand (1,000) square feet.
  Q. Conversion of existing accessory buildings (such as detached garages) may only
occur where the existing accessory building meets the setback requirements for a
primary residence in the zone and meets the applicable building code. (Ord. 21-25)


       Section 3.    Effective Date. The Ordinance shall take effect upon first
publication.


       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this   day of  , 2023.


                                          MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                          ___________________________________
                                          _________________, Chair

ATTEST:




Brooke Smith, City Recorder



     Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this ____ day of
_________________, 2023.
MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

      DATED this ____ day of __________, 2023.



                                       ___________________________________
                                       Brett A. Hales, Mayor


ATTEST:



Brooke Smith, City Recorder




                          CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

     I hereby certify that this Ordinance was passed on the ____ day of
___________, 2023.



                                       ____________________________
                                       Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Planning Commission
November 17, 2022
Page 8



LAND USE ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENT - Section 17.78.050.J Detached ADU's

Mr. Smallwood presented (on behalf of Susan Nixon). Peggy Imai is requesting an update to
Chapter 17.78.050(J), changing the minimum lot area of 12, 000 square feet (.275 acre) to
10,000 square feet (.23 acre) required for Detached Accessory Dwelling Units. Section
17.78.050(J) states: "The minimum lot size required for construction of a detached ADU in all
single-family residential zones shall be twelve thousand (12,000) square feet." The request is to
reduce the minimum area required from 12,000 square feet to 10,000 square feet. Staff has
been considering other amendments for detached ADUs such as setbacks and maximum
square footage for a detached ADU but has not fully researched these other changes and any
potential impacts. Therefore, staff is not recommending other changes at this time.

The proposed request will potentially allow more property owners the ability to have detached
ADU's. The Planning Division does not anticipate adverse impacts to the community as a result
of the proposed change. The proposed amended ordinance will continue to regulate accessory
dwelling units and potentially allow additional properties the ability to have a detached dwelling
unit.

Based on the background, staff review, and the findings in this report, Staff recommends that
the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for the
request to amend the text of Chapter 17.78.050(J), Detached Accessory Dwelling Units, to
state: The minimum lot size required for construction of a detached ADU in all single-family
residential zones shall be ten thousand (10,000) square feet.

Ms. Imai stated she recently purchased the property at 451 East Vine Street and would like to
build a single-family dwelling with detached accessory dwelling unit. Her property is just shy of
the 12,000 sq.ft. minimum area requirement.

Mr. Pehrson opened for public comment. None came forward. The public comment for this
item was closed.

Ms. Patterson made the motion to send a positive recommendation to the city council for the
Land Use Text Amendment to Section 17.78.050.J. reducing the minimum area requirement for
detached accessory dwelling units from 12,000 sq.ft. to 10,000 sq.ft. Seconded by Mr.
Richards.

Roll call vote:

 A      Milkavich
 A      Pehrson
 A      Nay
 A      Patterson
 A      Hacker
 A      Richards

Motion Passes 6-0
OTHER BUSINESS
Planning Commission
November 17, 2022
Page 9


December 1st meeting is canceled. Mr. Hall mentioned two new hires. New planner Mustafa Al
Janabi and Economic Development Specialist Abigail Jacobsen.
Mr. Hacker moved to adjourn tonight’s meeting at 8:37 p.m. Seconded by Mr. Nay. A voice vote
was made, motion passed 6-0.


________________________________________
Jared Hall, Community & Economic Development Director
           MURRAYCITYCORPORATION                                                     Building Division   801-270-2400

           COMMUNITY&ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                                            Planning Division   801-270-2430




             AGENDA ITEM # 7 - Amendment for Detached ADU
ITEM TYPE:          Text Amendment

ADDRESS:            City Wide                             MEETING DATE:           November 17, 2022
                                                                                  Susan Nixon,
APPLICANT:          Peggy Imai                            STAFF:
                                                                                  Senior Planner
PARCEL ID:          Not Applicable                        PROJECT NUMBER:         22-158
PROPOSED            Chapter 17.78.050, Detached Accessory Dwelling
AMENDMENT           Unit minimum area requirement

                    Peggy Imai is requesting an update to Chapter 17.78.050(J), changing the
REQUEST:            minimum lot area of 12, 000 square feet (.275 acre) to 10,000 square feet (.23
                    acre) required for Detached Accessory Dwelling Units.


 I.    BACKGROUND & STAFF REVIEW

       Background
       Peggy Imai is the applicant, and property owner at 451 East Vine Street. The property is a
       vacant residential lot located within an R-1-8 Zone. The property is 11,325± ft2 (.26 acre). Ms.
       Imai would like to construct a single-family dwelling on the property with a detached ADU to
       the rear to allow for a tenant/caretaker. While Ms. Imai is making the request to support her
       intentions for her property, it is important to remember that the request would be in effect
       city-wide for all residentially zoned properties and not specific to Ms. Imai's property.

       ADUs have increased in popularity as a way to combat rising housing costs across the valley.
       Providing opportunities for additional affordable housing is paramount and occasional
       modifications to the land use code may be necessary.

       Murray City adopted an Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance in September of 2009. Section
       17.78, Accessory Dwelling Units, allows for ADUs in single family residential zones as a
       permitted use. The code was modified in 2021 to meet the Utah Legislature’s modified
       regulations (HB82) mandating that Internal ADUs be allowed as a permitted use in primarily
       residential zones. That change prohibited limiting the size and number of bedrooms that an
       Internal ADU may have. Regulations for detached ADUs were not modified at that time. Since
       the adoption of the ordinance Murray City has approved eighty-three (83) ADUs.




              Murray City Public Works Building   4646 South 500 West   Murray, Utah 84123
       Proposed Changes
       Section 17.78.050(J) states: "The minimum lot size required for construction of a detached ADU
       in all single-family residential zones shall be twelve thousand (12,000) square feet."
       The request is to reduce the minimum area required from 12, 000 square feet to 10,000
       square feet.

       Staff has been considering other amendments for detached ADUs such as setbacks and
       maximum square footage for a detached ADU but has not fully researched these other
       changes and any potential impacts. Therefore, staff is not recommending other changes at
       this time.

       Definitions:
       An attached/internal ADU is located within or attached to the main single-family dwelling.
       A detached ADU is completely separated from the main dwelling on the lot much in the same
       way a detached garage or shed are allowed.

       Continuing ADU regulations:
       The proposed ordinance will still require owner-occupancy, one utility meter, and
       conformance with building and fire codes. Detached ADUs are still required to be on one floor
       (not above a garage) and must meet the same setbacks as the main dwelling (25 feet front
       yard, 25 feet rear yard.


       ADU's do not allow for short term rentals and are not permitted by code. State regulations
       allow cities to require a permit before operating an ADU. Murray City code requires a rental
       license for any ADU's that are being rented out. The Planning Division reviews new attached
       ADU permit applications at the staff level. Detached ADU's still require Planning Commission
       approval. These approval processes are required prior to application for a building permit to
       construct an ADU. Additionally, the requirement for signatures on affidavits confirming that
       the homeowner will be living on site, and that they will not operate the ADU as a short-term
       rental

       Section 17.78.050, specific requirements for Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit:
       A. The property owner, which shall include titleholders and contract purchasers, must
       occupy either the principal unit or the ADU, but not both, as their permanent residence and at
       no time receive rent for the owner-occupied unit. Application for an ADU shall include
       evidence of owner occupancy as provided in section 17.78.020 of this chapter.
        B. Only one ADU may be created per lot or property.
        C. ADUs are allowed on properties that are zoned to allow single-family dwellings as a
       permitted use.
        D. The ADU shall conform to all applicable standards in the building, plumbing, electrical,
       mechanical, fire, health, and any other applicable codes.




Detached ADU modification                                                             2 of 4
         E. Installing separate utility meters for the ADU is prohibited.
         F. A separate entrance to the ADU shall not be allowed on the front or corner lot side yard.
       Any separate entrance shall be located to the side or rear of the principal residence.
         G. The total area of the ADU shall be less than forty percent (40%) of the square footage of
       the primary residence and in no case shall exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet.
         H. Detached ADUs shall not contain more than two (2) bedrooms.
         I. In addition to the parking required for the primary unit, two (2) additional off street
       parking spaces shall be provided. In no case shall fewer than four (4) total off street parking
       spaces be provided. Any additional occupant vehicles shall be parked on site. On street
       parking shall be reserved for visitors only.
         J. The minimum lot size required for construction of a detached ADU in all single-family
       residential zones shall be twelve thousand (12,000) ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
         K. Detached ADUs shall not be located in a front or corner lot side yard and shall meet the
       same setbacks as required for the primary residence in the zone.
         L. Any detached ADU located in a required side yard must comply with the setbacks for the
       principal residence and shall have adequate facilities for all discharge from roof and other
       drainage.
         M. Construction of a detached ADU shall not exceed the allowable lot or rear yard coverage
       standard for the underlying zone or encroach into the required setbacks.
         N. Detached ADUs shall be compatible with the exterior color and materials of the principal
       dwelling.
         O. The maximum height for detached ADUs is limited to one story and to twenty feet (20') or
       the height of the principal structure, whichever is less.
         P. The total floor area of a detached structure containing an ADU shall not exceed one
       thousand (1,000) square feet.
         Q. Conversion of existing accessory buildings (such as detached garages) may only occur
       where the existing accessory building meets the setback requirements for a primary residence
       in the zone and meets the applicable building code. (Ord. 21-25)


       Summary
       The proposed request will potentially allow more property owners the ability to have
       detached ADU's. The Planning Division does not anticipate adverse impacts to the community
       as a result of the proposed change. The proposed amended ordinance will continue to
       regulate accessory dwelling units and potentially allow additional properties the ability to
       have a detached dwelling unit.

II.    CITY DEPARTMENT REVIEW
       The proposed ordinance was made available for review by City Staff from various
       departments on October 31, 2022. No issues or comments were received.




Detached ADU modification                                                             3 of 4
III.   PUBLIC COMMENTS
       Notice of the public hearing for the requested text amendment was sent to affected entities
       and posted on the State’s public notice website. No comments have been received as of the
       writing of the Staff Report.

IV.    FINDINGS
        1.    The proposed text amendment furthers objective 9 of the Land Use and Urban Design
              Element of the General Plan to “provide a mix of housing options and residential
              zones to meet a diverse range of needs related to lifestyle and demographics,
              including age, household size, and income” by making the process to construct and
              operate an ADU easier.
        2.    The proposed changes are in harmony with objective 11 of the Land Use and Urban
              Design Element to “stimulate reinvestment in deteriorating areas of the city to
              support growth and enhance the image of the community” by reducing the minimum
              area requirement from 12,000 square feet to 10,000 square feet for a detached ADU.
        3.    Staff finds that objective 3 of the Neighborhoods & Housing Element that states
              “encourage housing options for a variety of age, family size and financial levels”
              supports the proposed changes. This allows additional residents that own a home that
              may be struggling to pay their mortgage or have a family member, friend or caretaker
              to reside on the same property.
        4.    Objective 1 of the Moderate-Income Housing Element states “ensure housing
              affordability targets are achievable using a range of strategies”. One of the strategies
              in this objective states to continue to support ADUs in all residential zones. Staff finds
              that the proposed change will further this objective by making it easier to construct
              and operate a detached ADU.


V.     STAFF RECOMMENDATION
       Based on the background, staff review, and the findings in this report, Staff recommends that
       the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of APPROVAL to the City Council for
       the request to amend the text of Chapter 17.78.050(J), Detached Accessory Dwelling
       Units, to state: The minimum lot size required for construction of a detached ADU
       in all single-family residential zones shall be ten thousand (10,000) square feet.




Detached ADU modification                                                               4 of 4
17.78.050: DETACHED ACCESSORY DWELLING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
  A. The property owner, which shall include titleholders and contract purchasers, must occupy
either the principal unit or the ADU, but not both, as their permanent residence and at no time
receive rent for the owner occupied unit. Application for an ADU shall include evidence of owner
occupancy as provided in section 17.78.020 of this chapter.
  B. Only one ADU may be created per lot or property.
  C. ADUs are allowed on properties that are zoned to allow single-family dwellings as a
permitted use.
 D. The ADU shall conform to all applicable standards in the building, plumbing, electrical,
mechanical, fire, health, and any other applicable codes.
  E. Installing separate utility meters for the ADU is prohibited.
 F. A separate entrance to the ADU shall not be allowed on the front or corner lot side yard.
Any separate entrance shall be located to the side or rear of the principal residence.
  G. The total area of the ADU shall be less than forty percent (40%) of the square footage of
the primary residence and in no case shall exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet.
  H. Detached ADUs shall not contain more than two (2) bedrooms.
  I. In addition to the parking required for the primary unit, two (2) additional off street parking
spaces shall be provided. In no case shall fewer than four (4) total off street parking spaces be
provided. Any additional occupant vehicles shall be parked on site. On street parking shall be
reserved for visitors only.
  J. The minimum lot size required for construction of a detached ADU in all single-family
residential zones shall be twelve thousand (12,000) square feet.
  K. Detached ADUs shall not be located in a front or corner lot side yard and shall meet the
same setbacks as required for the primary residence in the zone.
  L. Any detached ADU located in a required side yard must comply with the setbacks for the
principal residence, and shall have adequate facilities for all discharge from roof and other
drainage.
  M. Construction of a detached ADU shall not exceed the allowable lot or rear yard coverage
standard for the underlying zone or encroach into the required setbacks.
 N. Detached ADUs shall be compatible with the exterior color and materials of the principal
dwelling.
  O. The maximum height for detached ADUs is limited to one story and to twenty feet (20') or
the height of the principal structure, whichever is less.
  P. The total floor area of a detached structure containing an ADU shall not exceed one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
  Q. Conversion of existing accessory buildings (such as detached garages) may only occur
where the existing accessory building meets the setback requirements for a primary residence
in the zone and meets the applicable building code. (Ord. 21-25)
          MURRAY CITY CORPORATION                                                              Building Division   801-270-2400

          COMMUNITY & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                                                     Planning Division   801-270-2430




                                     NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
                                       November 17, 2022, 6:30 PM


The Murray City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing in the Murray City Municipal Council
Chambers, located at 5025 S. State Street to receive public comment on the following application:


A request to amend Murray City Code Chapter 17.78., Modifications to Detached Accessory Dwelling
Units.


The meeting is open, and the public is welcome to attend in person or you may submit comments via
email at planningcommission@murray.utah.gov. If you would like to view the meeting online, you may
watch via livestream at www.murraycitylive.com or www.facebook.com/MurrayCityUtah/.

Comments are limited to 3 minutes or less, written comments will be read into the meeting record.


If you have questions or comments concerning this proposal, please contact the Murray City Planning
Division at 801-270-2430, or e-mail planning@murray.utah.gov.




                                      Public Notice Dated | November 3, 2022

                  Murray City Public Works Building | 4646 South 500 West | Murray | Utah | 84123
Types of ADUs
 Attached (left)
 • A part of the main dwelling; basement,
    addition, etc.

 Detached (right)
 • Wholly separated from the existing dwelling
Detached ADUs
• Current requirements
   • 12,000 sq ft lot required
   • 1,000 sq ft or 40% of main dwelling
   • No more than 2 bedrooms
   • Two additional off-street parking
      spaces



• Proposed requirements
    • 10,000 sq ft lot required
    • 1,000 sq ft or 40% of main dwelling
    • No more than 2 bedrooms
    • Two additional off-street parking
      spaces
RECOMMENDATION
dŚĞWůĂŶŶŝŶŐŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶĂŶĚƐƚĂĨĨƌĞĐŽŵŵĞŶĚƐƚŚĂƚƚŚĞŝƚǇ
ŽƵŶĐŝůWWZKsƚŚĞƌĞƋƵĞƐƚĞĚĂŵĞŶĚŵĞŶƚƚŽŚĂƉƚĞƌ
ϭϳ͘ϳϴ͘ϬϱϬ͘:͕ĞƚĂĐŚĞĚĐĐĞƐƐŽƌǇǁĞůůŝŶŐhŶŝƚƐ͕ƚŽƐƚĂƚĞ͗
dŚĞŵŝŶŝŵƵŵůŽƚƐŝǌĞƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚĨŽƌĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶŽĨĂĚĞƚĂĐŚĞĚh
ŝŶĂůůƐŝŶŐůĞͲĨĂŵŝůǇƌĞƐŝĚĞŶƚŝĂůǌŽŶĞƐƐŚĂůůďĞƚĞŶƚŚŽƵƐĂŶĚ;ϭϬ͕ϬϬϬͿ
ƐƋƵĂƌĞĨĞĞƚ͘
Discussion
 Item #3
                                    Police Department

                                   First Responder Wellness Grant
                                   Funding and MOU Acceptance

                                    Committee of the Whole and ŽƵŶĐŝůDĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 17, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Consideration of the recent MOU and grant funding for First
Craig Burnett            Responder Wellness Grant.
                    Action Requested
Phone #
801-264-2613
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         MOU
Burnett, Craig

                    Budget Impact
                         Grant funded annual wellness for first responders budgeted.



                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation
                         This MOU is to implement the provisions of Utah Code Ann. §§
ϭϬDŝŶƵƚĞƐ               53-21-103, which allows DPS to award grants to first responder
Is This Time             agencies to assist with the costs of providing mental health
Sensitive                resources to first responders. The MOU has complete details
                         including funding amount.
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 5, 2022
                                RESOLUTION NO. R23-__


        A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING A GRANT AWARD FROM THE
        DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY FOR THE STATE OF UTAH AND
        AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF A MEMORANDUM OF
        UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE CITY AND THE DEPARTMENT OF
        PUBLIC SAFETY FOR THE STATE OF UTAH RELATING TO FIRST
        RESPONDER MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES.

        WHEREAS, first responders experience a broad range of mental health
consequences as a result of work-related exposures to hazards inherent in the nature of
their jobs including death, injury, pain, and grief as well as long hours of work, threats to
personal safety, poor sleep, and other challenging experiences; and

        WHEREAS, in 2022 the Utah State Legislature enacted First Responder Mental
Health Services Amendments (“HB 23”), which directs all first responder agencies to
provide mental health resources for employees, employees’ spouses and children and
for retirees; and

       WHEREAS, HB 23 authorizes the Department of Public Safety for the State of
Utah (“DPS”) to enact rules for mental health programs; and

       WHEREAS, HB 23 creates a modest grant program within the DPS to assist in
establishing the required mental health services; and

       WHEREAS, the DPS has awarded the City $20,211 to assist with the costs of
providing mental health resources to first responders; and

       WHEREAS, City and the DPS want to enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding stating the obligations that govern the award of state funds granted to
City pursuant to HB 23.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council
that:

        1.    It hereby accepts the grant award of $20,211 and approves an
              Memorandum of Understanding between Murray City Corporation and the
              Department of Public Safety for the state of Utah, in substantially the form
              attached as Exhibit “A”; and

        2.    The Memorandum of Understanding is in the best interest of the City; and

        3.    Mayor Brett A. Hales is authorized to sign the Memorandum of
              Understanding on behalf of the City and to act in accordance with its
              terms.
       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this _______ day of _________________, 2023.

                                   MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                   _____________________________________
                                                 , Chair

ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                              Department of Public Safety
                              JESS L. ANDERSON
                              Commissioner



 State of Utah
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor

DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

                This Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is entered by and between Murray City
        (Recipient Entity) and the State of Utah, Department of Public Safety (DPS), stating the
        obligations that govern the award of state funds granted to the Recipient Entity from state funding
        received pursuant to House Bill 23 “First Responder Mental Health Service Amendments” passed
        in the 2022 General Legislative Session.

                                                                    PURPOSE

               This MOU is to implement the provisions of Utah Code Ann. §§ 53-21-103, which allows
        DPS to award grants to first responder agencies to assist with the costs of providing mental health
        resources to first responders.

                                                                AGREEMENT

            Therefore the Parties agree to this MOU as follows:

            a. DPS shall issue a check to Recipient Entity in the amount of $20,211.
            b. The Recipient Entity agrees to:
               1) use the awarded resources only in the manner set forth in Section 53-21-103;
               2) maintain records for five years sufficient to show how the funding is used;
               3) cooperate with the committee (awarding committee) created under Administrative Rule
                   R714-570-10 if and when the committee determines it is necessary to audit agency
                   records, and evaluate use of the funding; and
               4) provide a quarterly report to the committee that includes:
                    (a) the amount of grant funding awarded to the agency;
                    (b) the amount of grant funding expended by the agency, and the purposes for which
                        the grant funding was expended;
                    (c) the amount of grant funding not yet expended by the agency;
                    (d) the number of first responders, family members, and retired first responders
                        served; and the types of services provided
               5) return the grant funding to DPS if DPS determines that an agency has used grant
                   funding for purposes not specified in Section 53-21-103.




                        4501 South 2700 West • Box 141775 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-1775 • Telephone (801) 965-4461
       This MOU shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah. Each
signatory below represents that he/she has the authority to agree to all the terms of this Agreement
and bind their respective entity.

        This MOU is in effect as of the last date when both signatories have signed this document.
This MOU remains in effect until all funds have been spent by Recipient Entity, and a final report
is received by DPS.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF.


DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY                                         RECIPIENT ENTITY




__________________________ _________                                _________________________ ________
Jess Anderson               Date                                     Recipient Entity            Date
Commissioner, Public Safety




            4501 South 2700 West • Box 141775 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-1775 • Telephone (801) 965-4461
Discussion
 Item #4
                                    ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝůĂŶĚ
                                    ĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ
                                   /ŶƚĞƌůŽĐĂůŽĂƌĚƐĂŶĚŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ
                                   ZĞƉŽƌƚƐ

                                    ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞŽĨƚŚĞtŚŽůĞ
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 17, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Reports from Murray City representatives who serve on
Jennifer Kennedy         interlocal boards, committees and commissions.
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  /ŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶĂůŽŶůǇ͘
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         EŽŶĞ
Ɛ>ŝƐƚĞĚ

                    Budget Impact
                         Eͬ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for           Biannual reports from City representatives who serve on
Presentation                   Interlocal Boards and Commissions (5 minutes each)

30 Minutes                  a. TransJordan Landfill - Russ Kakala
Is This Time                b. NeighborWorks - Jared Hall
                            c. Association of Municipal Councils (AMC) and Wasatch
Sensitive                       Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD) - Diane
No                              Turner (10 minutes)
                            d. Murray Chamber of Commerce - Pam Cotter
Mayor’s Approval            e. Legislative Policy Committee (LPC) - Rosalba Dominguez



Date
January 3, 2023
Adjournment
Council Meeting
  6:30 p.m.
     Call to Order
  Pledge of Allegiance
Council Meeting
   Minutes
                Murray City Municipal Council Chambers
                           Murray City, Utah

                                         DRAFT

                          Tuesday, December 6th, 2022

The Murray City Municipal Council met on Tuesday, December 6th, 2022, at 6:30 p.m. for a
meeting held in the Murray City Council Chambers, 5025 South State Street, Murray, Utah.

The public was able to view the meeting via the live stream at www.murraycitylive.com or
https://www.facebook.com/Murraycityutah/. A recording of the City Council meeting can be
viewed HERE.

Council in Attendance:

       Vacant               District #1
       Pamela Cotter        District #2 - Excused
       Rosalba Dominguez    District #3
       Diane Turner         District #4 - Conducting
       Garry Hrechkosy      District #5
       Jennifer Kennedy     Council Director
       Patti Johnson        Council Office Administrator III
       Crystal Brown        Officer Administrator

Administrative Staff in Attendance:

       Brett A. Hales       Mayor
       Doug Hill            Chief Administrative Officer
       Tammy Kikuchi         Chief Communication Officer
       G.L. Critchfield     City Attorney
       Brooke Smith         City Recorder
       Brenda Moore         Finance and Administration Director
       Craig Burnett        Police Chief
       Joey Mittelman       Fire Chief
       Kim Sorensen         Parks and Recreation Director
       Rob White            IT Service Director
       Ryan Madsen          IT Support Supervisor
       Ben Gray             Senior IT Technician
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 2



Others in Attendance:
       Lawrence Horman, Rachel Morot, DeLynn Barney, Bree T., Linda Fox, Jim Searle, Dave
       Carr, Shawn Delliskave, Paul Henderson, David Rodgers, and Kerrie White.

Opening Ceremonies

         Call to Order – Councilmember Turner called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.

         The audience was invited to recite the Pledge of Allegiance led by Ben Gray.

Approval of Minutes

         Council Meeting – October 18, 2022
         Council Meeting – November 1, 2022

         MOTION:

         Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez moved to approve the minutes, for the October 18,
         2022, and November 1, 2022 council meetings. The motion was SECONDED by
         Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy.

         Roll Call:
         Ayes: Garry Hrechkosy, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner
         Nays: None
         Abstain: None
         Excused: Pamela Cotter

         Motion passed 3-0

Special Recognition

    1. Introduction of Miss Murray, Emma Robinson

         Presenting: Mayor Hales

         Mayor Hales introduced Emma Robison, as the 2023 Miss Murray.

         Emma Robison is a Murray native who recently graduated with honors from Murray High
         School and served as a Student Body Officer. Emma Robison was a state finalist in the
         Sterling Scholar Competition, danced with the Murray Dance Company, and was a
         member of the tennis team. Emma Robison received a full tuition scholarship to Brigham
         Young University and is a freshman in the Pre-Business Program. Emma Robison has taken
         up ballroom dance and competed in the Dance Sport Championships last month. Emma
         Robison loves serving others, baking, Taylor Swift, and especially her hometown! Emma
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 3



         Robison is looking forward to representing Murray City this year and working with the
         wonderful community and city leaders.

         Emma Robinson spoke about the experiences leading up to the competition and said her
         social impact initiative is, “Serve Others Selflessly (S.O.S.).” She helps organize and
         implement acts of service in the community.

         The Mayor and Council congratulated Emma Robison for her hard work and
         accomplishments.

    2. Murray City Council Employee of the Month, Rob White, Information Technology
       Director

         Presenting: Councilmember Turner and Mayor Hales

         Councilmember Turner introduced Rob White as the December Employee of the Month.
         Councilmember Turner shared that Rob White would receive a certificate, a $50 gift card,
         and his name would appear on the plaque in the Council Chambers.

         Mayor Hales shared his appreciation for Rob White and all his hard work. The city recently
         dealt with an attack on its computer and phone networks. Rob White managed his
         amazing staff through this crisis working tirelessly over several long nights and weekends
         to resolve every issue.

         Councilmembers thanked Rob White for his service over the past 25 years and stated they
         appreciate him being a part of Murray City.

         Rob White introduce his spouse to the audience and shared his appreciation to the staff
         and council for the recognition. He gave credit to his staff who worked long hours while
         working through a crisis.

Citizen Comments

         The meeting was open for public comment.

         Lawrence Horman

                  Shared concerns about homeless issues.

         Shawn Delliskave

                  Shawn Delliskave is a member of the media. He encouraged the council to be
                  more transparent during the selection process to fill the council seat for District
                  1 on Monday, December 12. He recommended the council disclose any prior
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 4



                  relationship with any of the applicants (including personal, business, family,
                  political, etc.) and base the decision on the candidate's merit and prior
                  knowledge and experience in municipal government.

         Rachel Morot

                  Shared her request to preserve historic buildings in Murray and not use the land
                  for bigger and denser development. She acknowledged that density does need
                  to be added, however, not at the expense of our historic buildings. She thanked
                  the council for their consideration of all the sites and the discussions the council
                  has during the work meetings.

         DeLynn Barney

                  DeLynn Barney has lived in Murray City since 1963 and shared a brief history of
                  schools he attended and home locations since living here. He would like to see
                  this building (City Hall located at 5025 S. State Street) preserved as a historical
                  building after the staff moves into the new city hall (located at 10 East 4800
                  East).

         No additional comments were given, and the open public comment period was closed.

Consent Agenda

         None Scheduled

Public Hearings

    1. Consider an ordinance relating to land use; amend the General Plan from Low-Density
       Residential to Neighborhood Business and amends the Zoning Map from R-1-8
       (Residential Low Density) to R-N-B (Residential Neighborhood Business) for the
       property located at 97 West Winchester Street, Murray, Utah.

         Presenting: Jared Hall, Community, and Economic Development Director
         Attachment 1 – 97 West Winchester

         Jared Hall, Community and Economic Development Director, shared an overview of the
         request to amend the General Plan from Low-Density Residential to Neighborhood
         Business and amend the Zoning Map from R-1-8 (Residential Low Density) to R-N-B
         (Residential Neighborhood Business) for the property located at 97 West Winchester
         Street, Murray, Utah.

         The property owner, Paul Henderson has requested an amendment to the Future Land
         Use and Zoning Map designations of his property to support operating his property
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 5



         management business from a future office on the site. He proposed changing the Future
         Land Use designation from Low-Density Residential to Residential Business, and the
         Zoning Map designation from R-1-8, Single Family Residential to R-N-B, Residential
         Neighborhood Business.

         The home largely fronts Winchester Street. The driveway access is the part of the front
         yard that fronts Malstrom Lane. The General Plan and Future Lands Use Map call for most
         of the homes that front Winchester to be rezoned to Residential Neighborhood Business.
         This property was excluded from the Future Land Use Map’s designation to rezone the
         frontage of Winchester to Residential Business. However, staff assumes that this was
         because the home shares part of its frontage with Malstrom Lane, which is entirely single-
         family residential. Although the home is surrounded by other single-family homes, the
         Nome is near other commercial uses, and Fashion Place Mall is just across the bridge.

         The existing R-1-8 Zone generally allows single-family detached homes along with parks,
         schools, churches, and some utilities. The requested R-N-B Zone allows single-family
         detached and attached homes (twin-homes), duplexes, certain professional office uses,
         banking, salons, schools, and churches.

         The applicant currently runs his business in Midvale, however, he would like to move his
         business to Murray. He manages residential rentals, has seven employees, and is open
         from 9 am to 5 pm, Monday through Friday. If approved he plans on doing some minor
         improvements to the home, like paint and installing a new fence. He may park some
         sedans in the back but overall the footprint of his business will be minimal.

         CITIZEN COMMENTS

         The meeting was open for public comment.

         Lawrence Horman

                  Asked a question to staff about the application process when applying for a
                  "conditional use" on a property.

         No additional comments were made and the public comment period was closed.

         MOTION

         Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy moved to approve the ordinance relating to land use;
         amend the General Plan from Low-Density Residential to Neighborhood Business and
         amend the Zoning Map from R-1-8 (Residential Low Density) to R-N-B (Residential
         Neighborhood Business) for the property located at 97 West Winchester Street, Murray,
         Utah. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez.
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 6




         VOTE

         Ayes: Garry Hrechkosy, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner
         Nays: None
         Abstain: None
         Excused: Pamela Cotter

         Motion passed 3-0

Business Item

    1. Consider a resolution authorizing the execution of an Interlocal Cooperation
       Agreement between the City, Salt Lake County, Layton City, and Salt Lake City for
       administering and managing certain law enforcement software services.

         Presenting: Chief Craig Burnett

         Chief Burnett shared an overview of the request to authorize the execution of an
         Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City, Salt Lake County, Layton City, and
         Salt Lake City for administering and managing certain law enforcement software
         services.

         This agreement with Salt Lake County to work cooperatively and administer law
         enforcement software. Targeting specific PenLink technology that continues to evolve
         and tracking those crimes.

         The cost to use the program will be $39,000 per year.

         MOTION

         Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy moved to approve a resolution authorizing the
         execution of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City, Salt Lake County,
         Layton City, and Salt Lake City for administering and managing certain law enforcement
         software services. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez.

         VOTE

         Ayes: Garry Hrechkosy, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner
         Nays: None
         Abstain: None
         Excused: Pamela Cotter

         Motion passed 3-0
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 7




    2. Consider a resolution authorizing the execution of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
       between the Board of Education of Granite School District (“District’) and Murray City
       (“City”), relating to a School Resource Officer provided by the City to the District.

         Presenting: Chief Craig Burnett

         Chief Burnett shared an overview of the resolution requesting an Interlocal Cooperation
         Agreement for one School Resource Officer (SRO) to serve at Cottonwood High School in
         the Granite School District.

         DISCUSSION

         Councilmember Dominguez asked how much Granite School District reimburses the city
         to have an officer there.

         Chief Burnett answered that currently, the city gets $12,000 per year. However, this
         agreement updates the total reimbursement to $45,000 per year which is the market rate
         for other schools and districts.

         MOTION

         Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez moved to approve a resolution authorizing the
         execution of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the Board of Education of
         Granite School District (“District’) and Murray City (“City”), relating to a School Resource
         Officer provided by the City to the District. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember
         Garry Hrechkosy.

         VOTE

         Ayes: Garry Hrechkosy, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner
         Nays: None
         Abstain: None
         Excused: Pamela Cotter

         Motion passed 3-0

    3. Consider a resolution to acknowledge the completion and receipt of the independent
       audit for the Fiscal Year 2021-2022 and direct that notice be published pursuant to
       Section 10-6- 152 of the Utah Code.

         Presenting: Brenda Moore, Director of Finance and Administration

         Brenda Moore, Finance and Administration Director shared an overview of the
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 8



         independent audit for the Fiscal Year 2021-2022.

         HBME, LLC was hired to do an Independent Audit of the City's accounts for the fiscal year
         2021-2022.

         Councilmember Hrechkosy, who works as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), shared his
         appreciation for Brenda Moore and her team for their leadership and fiscal oversight over
         the city budget.

         The Councilmembers thanked Brenda Moore and her team for the excellent audit report
         provided by HBME.

         MOTION

         Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy moved to approve a resolution to acknowledge the
         completion and receipt of the independent audit for the Fiscal Year 2021-2022 and direct
         that notice be published pursuant to Section 10-6- 152 of the Utah Code. The motion was
         SECONDED by Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez.

         VOTE

         Ayes: Garry Hrechkosy, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner
         Nays: None
         Abstain: None
         Excused: Pamela Cotter

         Motion passed 3-0

    4. Election of a City Council Member to serve as Council Vice-Chair for the remainder of
       the calendar year 2022.

         Presenting: Diane Turner

         Councilmember Turner shared that a vacancy has occurred in the City Council leadership
         due to Councilmember Kat Martinez resigning from her position on the City Council while
         she was presiding as Council Chair. Due to Council Member Martinez's resignation,
         Council Member Turner, who was serving as Vice-Chair of the City Council, automatically
         becomes the Chair of the City Council. The council now needs to fill the vacated Vice-Chair
         position on the City Council for the remainder of 2022. The council may elect a new Vice-
         Chair to complete the term at the first regular Council meeting following the vacancy
         announcement. The councilmember shall be elected by a majority vote of the Council.

         The Council Vice-Chair shall be elected for the remaining year. They would be the
         presiding officer in the temporary absence of the Chair and in the event, the Chair is
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 9



         incapacitated due to illness or otherwise unable to attend Council meetings, the Vice-
         Chair shall sign ordinances, resolutions, and other official correspondence.

         NOMINATION

         The nomination for Vice-Chair was open:

         Councilmember Dominguez nominated Councilmember Hrechkosy.

         Councilmember Turner seconded the nomination.

         Councilmember Hrechkosy accepted the nomination.

         VOTE

         Ayes: Garry Hrechkosy, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner
         Nays: None
         Abstain: None
         Excused: Pamela Cotter

         Motion passed 3-0

Mayor’s Report and Questions

         Councilmember Hrechkosy asked the Mayor to share information about the Christmas
         Tree Lighting event held at Murray City Hall on Saturday, December 3, 2022.

         Mayor Hales shared that there was a huge public turnout; Santa Claus arrived as a guest
         in the Murray City Fire Truck; Miss Murray and her Little Miss attended and participated;
         Hillcrest Junior High Choir sang a few songs in the Council Chambers.

         The Mayor thanked the Power Department for coordinating everything and the event was
         a huge success.

         Mayor Hales shared that the County should be approving some Grant Funds for the City
         to use with the Tourism, Recreation, Culture, and Convention Tax (TRCC). If approved, the
         City should get $758,000 to be used at the Murray Mansion and $100,000 to install a new
         playground near Pavilion Five (5).

         Mayor Hales shared that new stadium seats (with cup holders) are being installed at the
         amphitheater.

         Councilmember Hrechkosy shared that he attended the 20th celebration of the Park
         Center, and his family had a great time.
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 10




Adjournment

         MOTION:

         Councilmember Hrechkosy motioned to close the meeting.
         The Motion was seconded by Councilmember Dominguez.

         The meeting ended at 7:40 p.m.


____________________________ [SEAL]
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 11




                                  Attachment # 1
                                 Public Hearing # 1
                             97 West Winchester Street
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 12
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 13
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 14
Murray City Municipal Council Meeting
December 6th, 2022
Page 15
                                  MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                      SPECIAL MEETING
                                          District #1 Interviews
                                            Meeting Minutes
                      _________________________________________
                                   Tuesday, December 12, 2022
                                        Murray City Center
                   5025 South State Street, Council Chambers, Murray, Utah 84107

Attendance: Council Members and others:

    Vacancy                     District #1
    Diane Turner –Chair         District #4
    Pam Cotter                  District #2
    Rosalba Dominguez           District #3
    Garry Hrechkosy             District #5

Brett Hales        Mayor                            Jennifer Kennedy       City Council Executive Director
Doug Hill          Chief Administrative Officer     Pattie Johnson         Council Administration
Tammy Kikuchi      Chief Communications Officer     Brooke Smith           City Recorder
G.L. Critchfield   City Attorney                    Craig Burnett          Police Chief
Russ Kakala        Public Works Director            Jared Hall             CED Director
Kim Sorensen       Parks and Recreation Director    Brooke Smith           , Murray
                                                                           City     Resident
                                                                                Recorder
Ben Gray           IT                               Citizens

Call to order, conducting: Council Chair Turner called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.

Interim Council Member District 1 Process – City Attorney, Mr. Critchfield said initially there were nine
candidates who submitted applications for the District #1 position, but only six candidates were present.
A roll call was conducted, and the following applicants were confirmed as present for the interview
process:
  • Jeff Dredge
  • Philip J. Markham
  • Roberto Paul Pickett
  • Michael S. Richards
  • David Rodgers
  • Scot Woodbury

Mr. Critchfield shared State law requirements about holding the interviews in an open public meeting,
discussed how the interview process would be conducted and explained how Council Members would
vote immediately following the interview process.

All candidates were asked the following four questions:
  1. Based on what you know about City government, what do you see as top priorities for the City and
       why?
  2. What do you hope to accomplish as a city council member?
Murray City Municipal Council
Special Meeting – District #1 Interviews
December 12, 2022                                                                               Page 2
                                               DRAFT

  3. When making decisions, how would you determine what is in the best interest of the city?
  4. Name three qualities a council member should have.

City Council Vote
  • First Roll Call:
      o Mr. Hrechkosy: Michael Richards
      o Ms. Cotter: Philip Markham
      o Ms. Dominguez: David Rodgers
      o Ms. Turner: Phil Markham
         ▪ Those who did not receive a vote were eliminated.
         ▪ Phil Markham, receiving two votes, moved onto the second round
         ▪ A lot was drawn between the following candidates:
              • Michael Richards
              • David Rodgers
                  o The name Michael Richards was drawn.
  • Second Roll Call: Vote between Mr. Markham and Mr. Richards:
      o Mr. Hrechkosy: Michael Richards
      o Ms. Cotter: Michael Richards
      o Ms. Dominguez: Philip Markham
      o Ms. Turner: Phillip Markham
         ▪ Due to the vote ending in a tie, a lot was drawn between the following candidates:
              • Philip Markham
              • Michael Richards
                  o The name Philip Markham was drawn.

Consider a resolution appointing Philip Markham as Interim Murray City Council Member for Council
District 1, pursuant to Section 20A-1-510 of the Utah Code to serve until January 2, 2024. – Mr.
Hrechkosy motioned to approve the resolution. Ms. Dominguez seconded the motion.

   •    Council roll call vote:
        Ayes: Mr. Hrechkosy, Ms. Cotter, Ms. Dominguez, Ms. Turner
        Nays: None
        Abstentions: None

        Motion passed 4-0

Swearing-In Interim City Council Member District 1. – City Recorder, Ms. Smith proceeded with the
swearing in of Mr. Markham.

Adjournment: 6:01 p.m.
                                                            Pattie Johnson
                                                            Council Office Administrator III
 Special
Recognition
                                   City Council/Mayor

                                   Employee of the Month - Omar
                                   Limon

                                   ŽƵŶĐŝůDĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 17, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 ŵƉůŽǇĞĞŽĨƚŚĞDŽŶƚŚƌĞĐŽŐŶŝƚŝŽŶ
Jennifer Kennedy
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  /ŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶĂůŽŶůǇ
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         ZĞĐŽŐŶŝƚŝŽŶ&Žƌŵ
Pam Cotter
Kim Sorensen
                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        See Employee of the Month Recognition Form
Presentation


Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
January 3, 2023
                             EMPLOYEEOFTHEMONTHRECOGNITION



 DEPARTMENT:                                        DATE:

Parks and Recreation
 
                                                             1/17/2023
 

 NAMEofpersontoberecognized:                      Submittedby:

Omar Limon
 
 
                                                              Kim Sorensen


 DIVISIONANDJOBTITLE:

Senior Recreation Center, Chef
 YEARSOFSERVICE:
2


 REASONFORRECOGNITION:

Omar
    has been employed with Murray City for about two years.
 
Omar has made signification changes with the Senior Center lunch program. He
experimented with portions and blends of foods to understand and offer what the seniors
desire. Senior Center patrons praise Omar for the food he prepares. He is very
dedicated to his job and to making the highest quality food possible. He is deserving of
the Employee of The Month recognition. The number of meals served at the center
has increased since Omar was hired.

He has been a great addition to the Murray Senior Recreation Center




 COUNCILUSE:

 MONTH/YEARHONORED
          Citizen
         Comments
Limited to three minutes, unless otherwise approved by Council
Public Hearing
                                      Department/Agency
                                      ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŐĞŶĐǇ
                                      Finance & Administration
                                      &ŝŶĂŶĐĞΘĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ
                                      FY 2022-2023 Budget Amendment
                                      &zϮϬϮϮͲϮϬϮϯƵĚŐĞƚŵĞŶĚŵĞŶƚ


                                      Council Meeting
                                      ŽƵŶĐŝůDĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                      DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 17, 2023
                                                    :ĂŶƵĂƌǇϭϳ͕ϮϬϮϯ


Department           Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Amend the FY 2022-2023 budget
                         ŵĞŶĚƚŚĞ&zϮϬϮϮͲϮϬϮϯďƵĚŐĞƚ
Brenda Moore
ƌĞŶĚĂDŽŽƌĞ
                     Action Requested
Phone #                  Public hearing and consideration of the ordinance
                         WƵďůŝĐŚĞĂƌŝŶŐĂŶĚĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŽƌĚŝŶĂŶĐĞ
801-264-2513
801-264-2513             
                     Attachments
Presenters
                         Ordinance
                         KƌĚŝŶĂŶĐĞ
Brenda
ƌĞŶĚĂDŽŽƌĞ
       Moore             
                     Budget Impact
                         Budget Amendment
                         ƵĚŐĞƚŵĞŶĚŵĞŶƚ


                     Description of this /tem
Required Time for                     The     following items have been included in the
                                      dŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŝƚĞŵƐŚĂǀĞďĞĞŶŝŶĐůƵĚĞĚŝŶƚŚĞ
Presentation                                requested     budget amendment:
                                             ƌĞƋƵĞƐƚĞĚďƵĚŐĞƚĂŵĞŶĚŵĞŶƚ͗
                                      1.  General Fund ($95,340 being added to reserves):
                                      ϭ͘'ĞŶĞƌĂů&ƵŶĚ;Ψϵϱ͕ϯϰϬďĞŝŶŐĂĚĚĞĚƚŽƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐͿ͗
15 Minutes
ϭϱDŝŶƵƚĞƐ                                 A. Receipt of a grant from the Justice Assistance
                                      ͘ZĞĐĞŝƉƚŽĨĂŐƌĂŶƚĨƌŽŵƚŚĞ:ƵƐƚŝĐĞƐƐŝƐƚĂŶĐĞ
Is This Time                                Grant    Program $33,620, to be used for personal
                                             'ƌĂŶƚWƌŽŐƌĂŵΨϯϯ͕ϲϮϬ͕ƚŽďĞƵƐĞĚĨŽƌƉĞƌƐŽŶĂů
                                            protective    gear.
                                             ƉƌŽƚĞĐƚŝǀĞŐĞĂƌ͘
Sensitive                                  B. Receipt of a ZAP grant of $100,000 to reserves to
                                      ͘ZĞĐĞŝƉƚŽĨĂWŐƌĂŶƚŽĨΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬƚŽƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐƚŽ
Yes
Yes                                         offset   costs of FY2023 programming.
                                             ŽĨĨƐĞƚĐŽƐƚƐŽĨ&zϮϬϮϯƉƌŽŐƌĂŵŵŝŶŐ͘
                                           C. Receive $20,211 for public safety Mental Health
                                      ͘ZĞĐĞŝǀĞΨϮϬ͕ϮϭϭĨŽƌƉƵďůŝĐƐĂĨĞƚǇDĞŶƚĂů,ĞĂůƚŚ
Mayor’s Approval                            Grant    and return to reserves. The FY2023 budget
                                             'ƌĂŶƚĂŶĚƌĞƚƵƌŶƚŽƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐ͘dŚĞ&zϮϬϮϯďƵĚŐĞƚ
                                            was    increased in anticipation of possibly receiving
                                             ǁĂƐŝŶĐƌĞĂƐĞĚŝŶĂŶƚŝĐŝƉĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƉŽƐƐŝďůǇƌĞĐĞŝǀŝŶŐ
                                            aĂŐƌĂŶƚ͕ĂŶĚĚƵĞƚŽƚŚĞƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐďĞŝŶŐŶĞĞĚĞĚ
                                               grant, and due to the services being needed
                                            whether     the grant was received or not.
                                             ǁŚĞƚŚĞƌƚŚĞŐƌĂŶƚǁĂƐƌĞĐĞŝǀĞĚŽƌŶŽƚ͘
Date
December  22, 2022
:ĂŶƵĂƌǇϭϭ͕ϮϬϮϯ
ŽŶƚŝŶƵĞĚĨƌŽŵWĂŐĞϭ͗
     D. Appropriate $7,536 for overtime and related taxes, and $74,000 for additional software due
͘ƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞΨϳ͕ϱϯϲĨŽƌŽǀĞƌƚŝŵĞĂŶĚƌĞůĂƚĞĚƚĂǆĞƐ͕ĂŶĚΨϳϰ͕ϬϬϬĨŽƌĂĚĚŝƚŝŽŶĂůƐŽĨƚǁĂƌĞĚƵĞ
to   the computer incident, funded from reserves.
ƚŽƚŚĞĐŽŵƉƵƚĞƌŝŶĐŝĚĞŶƚ͕ĨƵŶĚĞĚĨƌŽŵƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐ͘
    E. Appropriate $21,578 for a music specialist cost sharing with Murray City School district,
͘ƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞΨϮϭ͕ϱϳϴĨŽƌĂŵƵƐŝĐƐƉĞĐŝĂůŝƐƚĐŽƐƚƐŚĂƌŝŶŐǁŝƚŚDƵƌƌĂǇŝƚǇ^ĐŚŽŽůĚŝƐƚƌŝĐƚ͕
funded    from reserves.
ĨƵŶĚĞĚĨƌŽŵƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐ͘
    F. Decrease the Mayor's budget for the DEI advisor $78,243 due to the change from employee to
&͘ĞĐƌĞĂƐĞƚŚĞDĂǇŽƌΖƐďƵĚŐĞƚĨŽƌƚŚĞ/ĂĚǀŝƐŽƌΨϳϴ͕ϮϰϯĚƵĞƚŽƚŚĞĐŚĂŶŐĞĨƌŽŵĞŵƉůŽǇĞĞƚŽ
professional   service, return to reserves.
ƉƌŽĨĞƐƐŝŽŶĂůƐĞƌǀŝĐĞ͕ƌĞƚƵƌŶƚŽƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐ͘

2.  Library Fund:
Ϯ͘>ŝďƌĂƌǇ&ƵŶĚ͗
    A. Receipt of a ARPA pass through from the Utah State Library Hot spot grant for $3,168
͘ZĞĐĞŝƉƚŽĨĂZWƉĂƐƐƚŚƌŽƵŐŚĨƌŽŵƚŚĞhƚĂŚ^ƚĂƚĞ>ŝďƌĂƌǇ,ŽƚƐƉŽƚŐƌĂŶƚĨŽƌΨϯ͕ϭϲϴ
    B. Receipt of additional State Library ARPA pass through grant for materials of $12,000.
͘ZĞĐĞŝƉƚŽĨĂĚĚŝƚŝŽŶĂů^ƚĂƚĞ>ŝďƌĂƌǇZWƉĂƐƐƚŚƌŽƵŐŚŐƌĂŶƚĨŽƌŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůƐŽĨΨϭϮ͕ϬϬϬ͘

3.  CIP Fund (total from reserves $72,922):
ϯ͘/W&ƵŶĚ;ƚŽƚĂůĨƌŽŵƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐΨϳϮ͕ϵϮϮͿ͗
    A. Receive and appropriate the TRCC Grant of $3,636,500 for the Murray Theater.
͘ZĞĐĞŝǀĞĂŶĚĂƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞƚŚĞdZ'ƌĂŶƚŽĨΨϯ͕ϲϯϲ͕ϱϬϬĨŽƌƚŚĞDƵƌƌĂǇdŚĞĂƚĞƌ͘
    B. Appropriate funds for a space saver shelving system in the police department in the new city
͘ƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞĨƵŶĚƐĨŽƌĂƐƉĂĐĞƐĂǀĞƌƐŚĞůǀŝŶŐƐǇƐƚĞŵŝŶƚŚĞƉŽůŝĐĞĚĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŝŶƚŚĞŶĞǁĐŝƚǇ
hall   $21,422 funded from reserves. This will be reimbursed if the City Hall budget has funds
ŚĂůůΨϮϭ͕ϰϮϮĨƵŶĚĞĚĨƌŽŵƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐ͘dŚŝƐǁŝůůďĞƌĞŝŵďƵƌƐĞĚŝĨƚŚĞŝƚǇ,ĂůůďƵĚŐĞƚŚĂƐĨƵŶĚƐ
remaining.
ƌĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐ͘
    C. Appropriate $51,500 for the Hanauer street change to xeriscape, funded from reserves. There
͘ƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞΨϱϭ͕ϱϬϬĨŽƌƚŚĞ,ĂŶĂƵĞƌƐƚƌĞĞƚĐŚĂŶŐĞƚŽǆĞƌŝƐĐĂƉĞ͕ĨƵŶĚĞĚĨƌŽŵƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐ͘dŚĞƌĞ
were    funds available from the original construction budget of Hanauer street which are also being
ǁĞƌĞĨƵŶĚƐĂǀĂŝůĂďůĞĨƌŽŵƚŚĞŽƌŝŐŝŶĂůĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶďƵĚŐĞƚŽĨ,ĂŶĂƵĞƌƐƚƌĞĞƚǁŚŝĐŚĂƌĞĂůƐŽďĞŝŶŐ
used for this project.
ƵƐĞĚĨŽƌƚŚŝƐƉƌŽũĞĐƚ͘

4. In the Power fund Increase the budget for purchased power $800,000 funded from reserves.
ϰ͘/ŶƚŚĞWŽǁĞƌĨƵŶĚ/ŶĐƌĞĂƐĞƚŚĞďƵĚŐĞƚĨŽƌƉƵƌĐŚĂƐĞĚƉŽǁĞƌΨϴϬϬ͕ϬϬϬĨƵŶĚĞĚĨƌŽŵƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐ͘

5. In the Solid Waste fund increase the collection budget by $44,500 due to Ace Disposal CPI
ϱ͘/ŶƚŚĞ^ŽůŝĚtĂƐƚĞĨƵŶĚŝŶĐƌĞĂƐĞƚŚĞĐŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶďƵĚŐĞƚďǇΨϰϰ͕ϱϬϬĚƵĞƚŽĐĞŝƐƉŽƐĂůW/
adjustment as allowed in the contract, funded from reserves.
ĂĚũƵƐƚŵĞŶƚĂƐĂůůŽǁĞĚŝŶƚŚĞĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚ͕ĨƵŶĚĞĚĨƌŽŵƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐ͘

6. In the Retained Risk fund appropriate $250,000 for liability claims, funded from reserves.
ϲ͘/ŶƚŚĞZĞƚĂŝŶĞĚZŝƐŬĨƵŶĚĂƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞΨϮϱϬ͕ϬϬϬĨŽƌůŝĂďŝůŝƚǇĐůĂŝŵƐ͕ĨƵŶĚĞĚĨƌŽŵƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐ͘

ϳ͘/ŶƚŚĞĞŶƚƌĂů'ĂƌĂŐĞ&ƵŶĚĂƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞΨϰϰ͕ϬϬϬĨŽƌŵĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞŽĨĨƵĞůƉƵŵƉƐĂŶĚůŝŶĞƐ͕ĨƌŽŵ
ƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐ͘

Ɛ/ƐƚĂƚĞĚŝŶƚŚĞŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞŽĨƚŚĞtŚŽůĞŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ŝĨƚŚĞ^ĐŚŽŽůŝƐƚƌŝĐƚDKhĨĂŝůƐƚŽƉĂƐƐ͕ǁĞ
ĐŽƵůĚŶŽƚŝƐƐƵĞĂĐŚĞĐŬĞǀĞŶŝĨƚŚĞƌĞŝƐďƵĚŐĞƚƚŽĚŽƐŽ͘dŚĞƌĞǁŽƵůĚďĞŶŽĂŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚ͘

                                 Murray City Corporation

                           NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING


       NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on the 17th day of January 2023, at the hour of
6:30 p.m. of said day in the Council Chambers of Murray City Center, 5025 South State
Street, Murray, Utah, the Murray City Municipal Council will hold and conduct a hearing
to receive public comment concerning amending the City’s fiscal year 2022–2023
budget. A copy of the proposed budget amendments may be reviewed by interested
persons by contacting the Murray City Department of Finance and Administration,
Room 115, Murray City Center, Murray, Utah, (801) 264-2660 during normal business
hours beginning January 6, 2023.


      DATED this 4th day of January 2023.


                                             MURRAY CITY CORPORATION


                                             _____________________________________
                                             Brooke Smith
                                             City Recorder



DATE OF PUBLICATION: January 6, 2023
PH23-01

1.    in three public places within the city;
2.    on the Utah Public Notice Website;
3.    on the home page of the Murray City website.
                                    ORDINANCE NO.

    AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CITY’S FISCAL YEAR 2022-2023 BUDGET

   On August 9, 2022, the Murray City Municipal Council adopted the City’s budget for
Fiscal Year 2022-2023. It has been proposed that the Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget be
amended as follows:

      1. In the General Fund appropriate from reserves the following items:

             a. $7,536 for overtime in the IT department;

             b. $74,000 for software in the IT department, and;

             c. $21,578 for cost sharing of a music specialist with Murray School District.

      2. In the General Fund receive and appropriate $33,620 from the Justice
         Assistance Grant program for police equipment.

      3. In the General Fund receive to reserves the following items:

             a. $100,000 from a zoos arts and parks grant received for arts programming;

             b. $20,211 from a public safety mental health grant, and;

             c. $78,243 from the mayor’s salaries and benefits budget due to change in
                DEI advisor status.

      4. In the Library Fund receive and appropriate the following with no financial impact:

             a. $12,000 for the Utah State Department of Libraries ARPA grant for
                materials, and;

             b. $3,168 for the Utah State Library ARPA hotspot grant.

      5. In the Capital Improvement Projects fund receive and appropriate $3,636,500
         Salt Lake County TRCC grant funds for the construction of the Murray Theater.

      6. In the Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) Fund appropriate from reserves the
         following:

             a. $20,329 for a space saver shelving system in the police department at the
                new city hall, and;

             b. $51,500 to change Hanauer street landscaping to xeriscape.
      7. In the Power Fund appropriate $800,000 from reserves for purchased power.

      8. In the Solid Waste Fund appropriate $44,500 from reserves for garbage
         collection fees.

      9. In the Retained Risk Fund appropriate $250,000 from reserves for liability claims.

      10. In the Central Garage Fund appropriate $44,000 from reserves for maintenance
         on the fleet fueling facility.

Section 10-6-128 of the Utah Code states that the budget for the City may be amended by
the Murray City Municipal Council following a duly noticed public hearing. Pursuant to
proper notice, the Murray City Municipal Council held a public hearing on January 17, 2023,
to consider proposed amendments to the Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget. After considering
public comment, the Murray City Municipal Council wants to amend the Fiscal Year 2022-
2023 budget.

 Section 1. Enactment. The City’s Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget shall be amended as
follows:
       1. In the General Fund appropriate from reserves the following items:

             a. $7,536 for overtime in the IT department;

             b. $74,000 for software in the IT department, and;

             c. $21,578 for cost sharing of a music specialist with Murray School District.

      2. In the General Fund receive and appropriate $33,620 from the Justice
         Assistance Grant program for police equipment.

      3. In the General Fund receive to reserves the following items:

             a. $100,000 from a zoos arts and parks grant received for arts programming;

             b. $20,211 from a public safety mental health grant, and;

             c. $78,243 from the mayor’s salaries and benefits budget due to change in
                DEI advisor status.

      4. In the Library Fund receive and appropriate the following with no financial impact:

             a. $12,000 for the Utah State Department of Libraries ARPA grant for
                materials, and;

             b. $3,168 for the Utah State Library ARPA hotspot grant.
     5. In the Capital Improvement Projects fund receive and appropriate $3,636,500
        Salt Lake County TRCC grant funds for the construction of the Murray Theater.

     6. In the Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) Fund appropriate from reserves the
        following:

            a. $20,329 for a space saver shelving system in the police department at the
               new city hall, and;

            b. $51,500 to change Hanauer street landscaping to xeriscape.

     7. In the Power Fund appropriate $800,000 from reserves for purchased power.

     8. In the Solid Waste Fund appropriate $44,500 from reserves for garbage
        collection fees.

     9. In the Retained Risk Fund appropriate $250,000 from reserves for liability claims.

     10. In the Central Garage Fund appropriate $44,000 from reserves for maintenance
        on the fleet fueling facility.

     Section 2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect on first publication.

       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this ___ day of ___________, 2023.

                                        MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL


                                        _____________________________________
                                        Garry Hrechkosy, Chair
ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

     DATED this ____ day of __________, 2023.



                                        _____________________________________
                                        Brett Hales, Mayor
ATTEST:
________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder




                           CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

       I hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the ___ day of _________, 2023.


                                        ____________________________________
                                        Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Business Items
Business Item #1
                                    Police Department

                                   First Responder Wellness Grant
                                   Funding and MOU Acceptance

                                    Committee of the Whole and ŽƵŶĐŝůDĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 17, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Consideration of the recent MOU and grant funding for First
Craig Burnett            Responder Wellness Grant.
                    Action Requested
Phone #
801-264-2613
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         MOU
Burnett, Craig

                    Budget Impact
                         Grant funded annual wellness for first responders budgeted.



                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation
                         This MOU is to implement the provisions of Utah Code Ann. §§
ϭϬDŝŶƵƚĞƐ               53-21-103, which allows DPS to award grants to first responder
Is This Time             agencies to assist with the costs of providing mental health
Sensitive                resources to first responders. The MOU has complete details
                         including funding amount.
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 5, 2022
                                RESOLUTION NO. R23-__


        A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING A GRANT AWARD FROM THE
        DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY FOR THE STATE OF UTAH AND
        AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF A MEMORANDUM OF
        UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE CITY AND THE DEPARTMENT OF
        PUBLIC SAFETY FOR THE STATE OF UTAH RELATING TO FIRST
        RESPONDER MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES.

        WHEREAS, first responders experience a broad range of mental health
consequences as a result of work-related exposures to hazards inherent in the nature of
their jobs including death, injury, pain, and grief as well as long hours of work, threats to
personal safety, poor sleep, and other challenging experiences; and

        WHEREAS, in 2022 the Utah State Legislature enacted First Responder Mental
Health Services Amendments (“HB 23”), which directs all first responder agencies to
provide mental health resources for employees, employees’ spouses and children and
for retirees; and

       WHEREAS, HB 23 authorizes the Department of Public Safety for the State of
Utah (“DPS”) to enact rules for mental health programs; and

       WHEREAS, HB 23 creates a modest grant program within the DPS to assist in
establishing the required mental health services; and

       WHEREAS, the DPS has awarded the City $20,211 to assist with the costs of
providing mental health resources to first responders; and

       WHEREAS, City and the DPS want to enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding stating the obligations that govern the award of state funds granted to
City pursuant to HB 23.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council
that:

        1.    It hereby accepts the grant award of $20,211 and approves an
              Memorandum of Understanding between Murray City Corporation and the
              Department of Public Safety for the state of Utah, in substantially the form
              attached as Exhibit “A”; and

        2.    The Memorandum of Understanding is in the best interest of the City; and

        3.    Mayor Brett A. Hales is authorized to sign the Memorandum of
              Understanding on behalf of the City and to act in accordance with its
              terms.
       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this _______ day of _________________, 2023.

                                   MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                   _____________________________________
                                                 , Chair

ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                              Department of Public Safety
                              JESS L. ANDERSON
                              Commissioner



 State of Utah
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor

DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




                                                 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

                This Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is entered by and between Murray City
        (Recipient Entity) and the State of Utah, Department of Public Safety (DPS), stating the
        obligations that govern the award of state funds granted to the Recipient Entity from state funding
        received pursuant to House Bill 23 “First Responder Mental Health Service Amendments” passed
        in the 2022 General Legislative Session.

                                                                    PURPOSE

               This MOU is to implement the provisions of Utah Code Ann. §§ 53-21-103, which allows
        DPS to award grants to first responder agencies to assist with the costs of providing mental health
        resources to first responders.

                                                                AGREEMENT

            Therefore the Parties agree to this MOU as follows:

            a. DPS shall issue a check to Recipient Entity in the amount of $20,211.
            b. The Recipient Entity agrees to:
               1) use the awarded resources only in the manner set forth in Section 53-21-103;
               2) maintain records for five years sufficient to show how the funding is used;
               3) cooperate with the committee (awarding committee) created under Administrative Rule
                   R714-570-10 if and when the committee determines it is necessary to audit agency
                   records, and evaluate use of the funding; and
               4) provide a quarterly report to the committee that includes:
                    (a) the amount of grant funding awarded to the agency;
                    (b) the amount of grant funding expended by the agency, and the purposes for which
                        the grant funding was expended;
                    (c) the amount of grant funding not yet expended by the agency;
                    (d) the number of first responders, family members, and retired first responders
                        served; and the types of services provided
               5) return the grant funding to DPS if DPS determines that an agency has used grant
                   funding for purposes not specified in Section 53-21-103.




                        4501 South 2700 West • Box 141775 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-1775 • Telephone (801) 965-4461
       This MOU shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah. Each
signatory below represents that he/she has the authority to agree to all the terms of this Agreement
and bind their respective entity.

        This MOU is in effect as of the last date when both signatories have signed this document.
This MOU remains in effect until all funds have been spent by Recipient Entity, and a final report
is received by DPS.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF.


DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY                                         RECIPIENT ENTITY




__________________________ _________                                _________________________ ________
Jess Anderson               Date                                     Recipient Entity            Date
Commissioner, Public Safety




            4501 South 2700 West • Box 141775 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-1775 • Telephone (801) 965-4461
Business Item #2
                                    Murray City Fire
                                    Department
                                    SHSP HAZMAT Training Grant


                                    Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 17, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Allow for the signing of the SHSP MOU that allows us to receive
Joey Mittelman           SHSP money for backfill during training.
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Approval to enter into the MOU and FEMA grant requirements
801-264-2775             to maintain our HAZMAT response.
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         MOU
Steve Olson

                    Budget Impact
                         The OT is reimbursed through the SHSP grant if we sign the
                         MOU. The cost to the city then is budget neutral.

                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        Murray City Fire Department is a part of the Salt Lake Valley
Presentation             HAZMAT response team. This allows for each city to share their
                         specialty with their surrounding cities. This allows Murray to save
5 Minutes                money on many other areas within HAZMAT. Murray serves as
Is This Time             the water way experts for controlling spills within our
                         waterways. Murray City Fire Department has Booms that are
Sensitive                deployed when needed and prevent further damage down
No                       stream. The training our Firefighters complete each year can be
                         reimbursed if we complete this grant.
Mayor’s Approval



Date
January 3, 2023
                              RESOLUTION NO. R23-__



        A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF A MEMORANDUM OF
        UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY AND MURRAY CITY
        RELATING TO REIMBURSEMENT OF OVERTIME OR BACKFILL COSTS
        INCURRED BY MURRAY CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL TO MAINTAIN
        CAPABILITY TO RESPOND TO HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND OTHER SERIOUS
        INCIDENTS.

       WHEREAS, Title 11, Chapter 13, of the Utah Code provides that two or more
public agencies may, by agreement, jointly exercise any power common to the
contracting parties for joint undertakings and services; and

      WHEREAS, the City and Unified Fire Authority (“UFA”) are “public agencies” as
contemplated in section11-13-101 of the Utah Code, et seq. – Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement Act; and

       WHEREAS, State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) is part of the Homeland
Security Grants Program; and

        WHEREAS, the Unified Fire Authority (the “UFA”) is the sub-recipient of grant
funds from the SHSP that have been made available to support continued training and
skills development and effective response in the event of an incident involving hazardous
materials (“HM”), chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear or high yield explosives
(“CBRNE”); and

      WHEREAS, grant funding is authorized for overtime and backfill costs for
emergency preparedness and response personnel attending FEMA-sponsored and
approved training classes; and

           WHEREAS, City has qualified personnel that currently attend FEMA-
approved training for HM and CBRNE incidents and for whom overtime backfill costs are
borne by the City; and

             WHEREAS, City wants to seek reimbursement from the available grant
funds; and

       WHEREAS, the Parties desire to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding
(“MOU”) to facilitate achievement of the goals and objectives of the grant funds by
setting forth the Parties’ responsibilities.

         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council
that:
       1.      It does hereby approve the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding
between Unified Fire Authority and Murray City in substantially the form attached as
Exhibit “A” to facilitate the achievement of the goals and objectives of the grant funds.

       2.    The City’s participation in the grant funds program is in the best interest of
the City.

      3.    Mayor Brett A. Hales is hereby authorized to execute the Memorandum of
Understanding on behalf of the City and to act in accordance with its terms.

       DATED this      day of     , 2023.


                                         MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL


                                         ________________________________
                                                     , Council Chair



ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
         Attachment

(Memorandum of Understanding)
       SHSP HAZMAT TRAINING PROGRAM GRANT MEMORANDUM OF
                         UNDERSTANDING

 This Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) between Unified Fire Authority (“UFA” or
 “Managing Organization”) an interlocal entity and a public subdivision of the State of Utah
 and                         _______________ (“Participating Agency”), a ____________of
 the State of Utah (individually a “Party” and collectively the “Parties”), is entered effective
 as of its execution by the Parties

I.       Purpose

 The purpose of this MOU is to afford public safety agencies the opportunity to commit qualified,
 trained personnel to continued training and skills development to better prepare and respond to
 incidents involving hazardous materials (HM) incidents and/or chemical, biological,
 radiological, nuclear, explosive (CBRNE) at the agency level. Region 2 has secured funds that
 provide a means to backfill qualified personnel selected to attend approved courses as identified
 herein. The MOU will delineate responsibilities and procedures for the administration and
 management of the SHSP Region 2 HM backfill funds ($30,000). By reimbursing for
 backfill, this SHSP funding will focus on enhancing preparedness and resilience for
 communities by directly funding activities to enhance participants’ preparedness, specifically
 for hazardous materials/CBRNE incidents.

 In conjunction with the SLVHAC three-year plan to host national-level training, this funding
 for backfill places emphasis on keeping parity with industry practice, knowledge, skills, and
 abilities as well as best practices and common understanding in preparing for these types of
 incidents between jurisdictions/agencies. Courses may occur in Utah or elsewhere and must
 be approved by the SLVHAC in advance in order to qualify for potential funding pursuant to
 this MOU. Training plans/courses will utilize FEMA training courses offered through the
 Emergency Management Institute, the Center for Domestic Preparedness, the National
 Domestic Preparedness Consortium, and other partners.

 A sample listing of courses is provided in Appendix A.


II.      Scope

The provisions of this MOU will apply to Unified Fire Authority’s management of the SHSP HM
backfill funds and the reimbursement of backfill costs incurred by participating agencies that
maintain capability and a responsibility to respond to hazardous materials incidents and/or
CBRNE at the agency level.

III.    Definitions

         A. SLCoEM- Salt Lake County, Utah Emergency Management.

         B. Grant – SHSP funds to reimburse qualified agencies for backfill expenses so that
            trained personnel may attend select HM/CBRNE courses. These funds typically
                                             1
          have a 36-month period of performance and multiple SHSP grants may be in
          effect at any given time.

       C. Participating agency – Public safety or health agency that maintains a HM/CBRNE
          response capability and supports personnel to attend courses approved and
          planned/scheduled through the SLVHAC. Agencies may include police, fire, health
          care provider, health dept personnel, etc. that are identified as having responsibility
          along or within the HM/CBRNE response continuum.

       D. Managing Organization –UFA as a sub-recipient of the Grant, which provides
          administrative and financial oversight in support of the program.

       E. SHSP – State Homeland Security Program. SHSP is part of the Homeland
          Security Grants Program (HSGP) and supports the implementation of risk-driven,
          capabilities-based State Homeland Security Strategies to address capability
          targets set in Urban Area, State, and Regional Threat and Hazard Identification
          and Risk Assessments (THIRAs).

       F. SLVHAC – The Salt Lake Valley Hazmat Alliance Committee.


IV.   Responsibilities

      A. The Parties agree to cooperate with each other to facilitate achievement of the goals
         and objectives of the Grant as fully and completely as possible within the period of
         performance for each of the SHSP grants awarded to provide for reimbursement of
         backfill expenses related to qualified personnel attending hazmat-related classes.
         This MOU and its purpose are subject to the availability of SHSP funds.

      B. The Parties agree and recognize that the Managing Organization is the Grant sub-
         recipient from the State of Utah and has primary responsibility for management of
         Grant funds and compliance with Grant requirements. For the purposes of the
         Grant, the Managing Organization provides oversight and represents that it will
         manage the Grant funds for the benefit of Region 2 preparedness. The Managing
         Organization will coordinate reimbursement of qualified backfill expenses in
         concert with the SLVHAC. As part of the process, the SLVHAC will approve the
         participation of all qualified personnel assigned to such opportunities. SLVHAC
         will notify Region 2 Participating Agencies of available training in a reasonably
         advanced time to allow for planning and selection of personnel.

      C. Participating Agency agrees to support the program by identifying and
         recommending qualified personnel for training as organized and arranged by
         SLVHAC. Participating Agency agrees to bear the cost of its personnel
         participating in such opportunities during their normal working hours and only seek
         reimbursement of those costs related to the backfill for personnel participating in
         such opportunities. Agencies shall also recommend personnel that commit to
         course completion.       Partial course completion will not be eligible for
                                            2
         reimbursement.



     D. SLVHAC will manage the three-year course schedule. Courses are not intended
        to be initial training or beginner level offerings. Courses will be a complement to
        the knowledge, skills, and capabilities of public safety agency hazmat response in
        Region 2. Courses will vary in duration from one to multiple days with some being
        primarily didactic and others involving hands-on evolutions. Additionally, courses
        may be online, in-person, or a hybrid delivery. SLVHAC will also provide a level
        of verification that the course announcements are sent through various means of
        media/contacts to ensure that Region 2 public safety agencies are aware of such
        offerings. SLVHAC will also verify that Participating Agencies maintain a
        HM/CBRNE response capability and that recommended personnel are part of the
        agency HM/CBRNE program.

     E. For disciplinary purposes, authority is limited to temporary suspension or exclusion
        of personnel from participation in such activities. In all other instances where
        disciplinary action may be necessary, Managing Organization or SLVHAC will
        report the pertinent circumstances to Participating Agency for adjudication as
        appropriate in accordance with the Participating Agency’s established rules and
        regulations. While participating in Grant-funded activities conducted by the
        Managing Organization and SLVHAC, participants will be subject to, observe, and
        comply with all lawful orders and directions of the authorized representatives of
        Managing Organization. Managing Organization retains the right to suspend or
        exclude any participant from participation in Grant-funded activities for cause
        including failure to abide by the provisions of this MOU.

     F. Nothing in this MOU is intended to, nor does it, affect the employer-employee
        relationship between Participating Agency and its employees who are participants
        in these courses. Participating Agency will at all times continue to be fully
        responsible for all of its employment obligations to its employees participating in
        Grant-funded activities, including the compensation, benefits, and worker’s
        compensation protection that the Participating Agency provides.


V.   Qualification for Participation

     A. A Participating Agency seeking to participate in the SHSP Program Grant shall be
        expected to meet requirements in one of the following categories:
            i.    Hazardous Materials Response Teams that are qualified to the equivalent
                  of a FEMA Type 3 Team or higher. Qualifications for FEMA Team
                  types are found in the FEMA Resource Typing Library Tool (RTLT)
                  under “Hazardous Materials Response Team.”
           ii. An Agency with Hazardous Materials Teams not currently qualified to
                  the level of a FEMA Type 3 Team may still participate in the grant
                  program under the following conditions:

                                         3
                        a. The Agency can adequately demonstrate ongoing progress
                            toward the development of response capabilities as a Type 3
                            Team or higher.
                        b. The Agency has a current, documented MOU with another
                            agency that provides service as a Hazardous Materials
                            Response Team qualified to the level of a FEMA Type 3 Team
                            or higher.
            iii.   Service providers in Hazardous Materials allied fields. Examples include
                   Law Enforcement, Clinical Healthcare, or other State or Local Agency
                   personnel who will respond and work closely with Hazardous Materials
                   Response Teams in the administration of their duties.

VI.   Reimbursement

      A. Personnel (Backfill) Costs. Managing Organization will reimburse Participating
         Agency for approved backfill costs using Grant funds upon Participating Agency
         submitting to Managing Organization a written request for reimbursement listing
         the costs with specificity for each employee. Pre-approval of backfill approval
         may be requested through the Managing Organization by the Participating
         Agency. Reimbursement for costs other than backfill are not authorized by
         this MOU.

      B. Funding. Reimbursement of costs incurred pursuant to this MOU is dependent
         upon funding being sufficient and available from the Grant. Managing
         Organization will use its best efforts to coordinate all activities with SLVHAC
         (and Participating Agencies by extension) to ensure that funding is available prior
         to the costs being incurred. However, Participating Agency assumes the risk of it
         incurring costs that exceed the total funding available under the Grant during its
         participation. If multiple Participating Agencies seek reimbursement for a total
         amount that exceeds the Grant, Managing Organization will pay such
         reimbursements on a pro rata basis based on the funding available. The
         performance period for these funds will expire March 1, 2024.

      C. Limitations. Participating Agency’s reimbursement amount is capped at $3,500
         per year to provide opportunity to all other eligible agencies in Region 2.
         SLVHAC may conduct an annual review of course planning, expenditures against
         the grant, and agency participation among those agencies eligible for
         reimbursement within the region. In the interest of ensuring fund utilization,
         limitations/caps will be reset each year after the annual review.

      D. Reimbursement Process. Participating Agency will first encumber backfill
         expenses associated with approved personnel that attend trainings. Participating
         Agency will submit reimbursement requests to the Managing Organization within
         45 days of course completion. Reimbursement requests from Participant Agency
         to Management Organization must include: 1) a copy of the class roster as
         verification of attendance, 2) payroll reports/verification of backfill expenses, and
         3) a completed and signed W-9 form. Managing Organization will review the

                                          4
             request and provide reimbursement within 60 days of submission unless there is
             a discrepancy or question as to the eligibility of all or a portion of the request. In
             the event of such a discrepancy or question, the two organizations will meet and
             confer to reasonably resolve the issue. SLVHAC may be party to the conference
             as needed. The reimbursement request shall be emailed to
             vgreensides@unifiedfire.org

VII.     Governmental Immunity

 Managing Organization is a governmental entity as set forth in the Governmental Immunity
 Act of Utah, Title 63G, Chapter 7, Utah Code Annotated (the “Immunity Act”). Managing
 Organization does not waive any defenses otherwise available under the Immunity Act (or
 successor provision), nor does it waive any limits of liability provided by the Immunity Act
 which immunity and damage caps are expressly preserved and retained. All obligations
 imposed upon the Parties or their employees by virtue of the execution of this MOU are
 considered within their current scope of employment with each Party.

VIII.    Indemnification

 Subject to the terms of the Immunity Act, and as provided herein, it is mutually agreed that
 the Parties are each responsible for their own negligent, reckless, or intentional acts or
 omissions which are committed by them or their agents, officials or employees.
 Furthermore, each Party agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold each other harmless from any
 and all damages or claims for damages occurring to persons or property as a result of the
 negligent, reckless, or intentional acts or omissions of its own officers, employees, and
 agents involved in participating in the program under the terms of this MOU. This duty to
 indemnify, defend, and hold each other harmless includes costs or expenses in law or equity,
 including attorney’s fees. The terms of this paragraph will survive the termination of this
 MOU.


IX.     General Provisions

        A. Effective Date. This MOU will be effective as of __________, 2022 when it has
           been duly and regularly authorized and executed by the Parties.

        B. Authority. This MOU is made under the authority of Utah law in furtherance of
           the purposes of the SHSP Region 2 HM backfill program. The Parties represent
           that this MOU is not an Interlocal Agreement entered into pursuant to the Utah
           Interlocal Cooperation Act, as no joint action is being undertaken, and is instead an
           MOU to set forth the terms and conditions for Participating Agency’s participation
           in a funded grant program and reimbursement of costs incurred thereby.

        C. Termination. The MOU will continue in effect unless terminated by either Party
           or due to discontinued funding through SHSP. Participating Agency may terminate
           this MOU with 30 days written notice to the Managing Organization and SLVHAC.
           Managing Organization may terminate this MOU with 30 days written notice to
           Participating Agency but may continue to process reimbursement requests
                                            5
   submitted prior to the date of termination until completed.

D. Miscellaneous Provisions.

    (i) The obligations of the Participating Agency set forth in this MOU are non-
        delegable and may not be assigned to or assumed by any other person without
        the prior written consent of Managing Organization.

    (ii) Except and to the extent federal law controls, this MOU will be construed and
         enforced, as between the Parties, according to the laws of the State of Utah.

    (iii) No Party will engage in any conduct or activity in the performance of this
          MOU or participation in the SHSP Region 2 HM backfill program that
          constitutes a conflict of interest under applicable federal, state, or local law,
          rules, and regulations.

   (iv) Each Party will at all times observe and comply with all applicable federal,
        state, and local laws, rules, and regulations.

    (v) Should any provision of this MOU be determined to be invalid or
        unenforceable under applicable law, the provision shall, to the extent
        required, be severed from the remainder of the MOU which shall continue in
        full force and effect.

   (vi) This MOU is made for the sole and exclusive benefit of the named Parties
        and their lawful successors in interest, and no other person or entity is
        intended to, nor shall such other person or entity acquire or be entitled to
        receive any rights or benefits as a third-party beneficiary of this MOU.

   (vii) Each person executing this MOU represents that they are lawfully authorized
         to sign the MOU on behalf of the respective Party, and, to the person's best
         knowledge and belief, the MOU is a binding and enforceable obligation of
         the Party on whose behalf it is executed.

   (viii) This MOU, including the Appendices and attachments, if any, constitutes the
          entire MOU between the parties and it supersedes any prior MOUs on this
          matter.




                                      6
            Executed on behalf of the parties effective as of the date provided for herein.



PARTICIPATING AGENCY
  _____________________________________

By:___________________________________
Its:__________________________________



MANAGING ORGANIZATION
SALT LAKE COUNTY EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT




_____________________________________
Division Chief Clint Mecham
Emergency Manager




APPROVED AS TO FORM


Date _______________________________
Brian F. Roberts
Chief Legal Officer




                                                7
                                                   Appendix A


List of courses that have been adopted by the SLVHAC and are subject to the terms of the SHSP Region 2 HM
backfill funds MOU. Note that these courses have been selected for their applicable subject matter as it applies
to the trained Hazardous Materials Technician and/or CBRNE responder and all others that would reasonably
be expected to have responsibility within the response continuum.

Note that the intent is to have these classes delivered in state and to seek additional courses to provide refresher
training and to introduce new knowledge, skills and abilities to enhance the overall Region 2 response
capability to incidents involving hazardous materials. Courses listed here are suggested. Course providers and
availability may change in which case a suitable or similar alternative course offering(s) should be pursued.

 Year one, session 1;
 Homemade Explosives: Awareness, Recognition, and Response (HME)
    The HME course is designed for all levels of first responders who may encounter or respond to a
    homemade explosives incident. This course presents information on the safe response to homemade
    explosive pre-detonation and post-detonation incidents. Delivery Methods: Mobile, 8 hrs. Provided
    through EMRTC program at New Mexico Tech University mobile classes free of charge:

 Medical Preparedness and Response to Bombing Incidents (MPRBI)
    The MPRBI course prepares first responders involved in the medical response to bombing incidents
    with the skills and knowledge necessary to effectively respond to the unique injuries of a bombing
    incident while considering existing hazards related to such an event. Delivery Methods: Mobile, 16
    hrs. Provided through EMRTC program at New Mexico Tech University mobile classes free of charge:

 Year one, session 2
 Highway Emergency Response Specialist (HERS), PER-291
     This course focuses on specific fundamentals associated with emergency response to a highway
     incident involving hazardous materials to include flammable/combustible liquids. Participants are
     provided with detailed technical information on all common US D.O.T. types of cargo tanks,
     intermodal and portable tanks, freight vans, their design and construction, as well as non-bulk
     packaging and compressed gas cylinders. Participants will review technical mitigation techniques,
     transfer procedures, grounding and bonding, and safety techniques for highway transportation
     incidents. Delivery Method: Hybrid, 20 hrs online / 24 hrs in-person. Provided through SERTC
     program in Pueblo, CO. This is a hybrid class (online and in-person at campus in CO) free of charge.

 Year two, session 1
 Population Monitoring at Community Reception Centers, PER 332
     This course trains emergency responders and non-uniformed support personnel to operate monitoring
     stations within the Community Reception Center (CRC), or similar reception centers, to perform
     population monitoring and contamination reduction measures after a radiological or nuclear incident.
     Examples of incidents that would initiate the establishment of a CRC include a nuclear detonation such

                             8
    as an improvised nuclear device (IND), radiological dispersal device (RDD), an attack on a nuclear
    power plant (NPP) or other incidents that expose the general population to radioactive contamination.
    Delivery Methods: Mobile, 8 hrs. Provided through CTOS Nevada National Security Site free of
    charge.

Operations Level Response to Radiological/Nuclear WMD, PER 348
    This course is designed for response mission operations and personnel who have little or no training in
    radiological/nuclear emergency WMD response. This course provides First Responders with
    fundamental knowledge regarding mission spaces related to radiological/nuclear threats. Delivery
    Methods: Mobile, 8 hrs. Provided through CTOS Nevada National Security Site free of charge.

Year two, session 2
Tactical Operations for CBRNE Incidents, PER 221
    The goal of this course is to provide tactical team personnel and emergency responders with the
    knowledge, skills, and abilities to safely and effectively respond to chemical, biological, radiological,
    nuclear, and explosive (CBRNE) incidents. Through a combination of classroom sessions and
    comprehensive practical exercises, participants gain knowledge and experience in decontamination
    procedures; selection and use of PPE; tactical operations involving an IED; identification and
    characteristics of chemical and biological agents; identification and characteristics of radiological
    isotopes; use of detection equipment; and planning and performing tactical operations in a CBRNE
    environment. Delivery Methods: Mobile, 24 hrs. Provided through Louisiana State University
    NCBRT/Academy of Counter-Terrorism Education free of charge.

Year three, session 1
Emergency Response to Domestic Biological Incidents, PER-220
   This course is designed to help participants safely and effectively respond to a biological incident by
   using an integrated approach. The course provides detailed information about various biological agents
   and possible methods of dissemination-whether naturally occurring or intentional. Participants will
   identify appropriate assessment and response actions and will review personal protection, containment
   measures, and tools that may be accessed during a biological incident. Delivery Methods: Mobile, 16
   hrs. Provided through Louisiana State University NCBRT/Academy of Counter-Terrorism Education
   free of charge.

Year three, session 2
Critical Decision Making for Complex Coordinated Attacks, PER 335
     This course addresses the vulnerability of any community to a public safety situation, such as an active
     shooter at a shopping mall; a train derailment with hazardous chemicals; a bombing incident at a
     commercial district; a plane crash; or chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, or explosive attack.
     These attacks, known as complex coordinated attacks, involve multiple threats that often exceed
     conventional response tactics. These attacks require a joint response involving members from varying
     disciplines and jurisdictions. The course will enhance the response capabilities of participants by
     providing them with the knowledge and tools to enable effective response.


                           9
This course is taught through a combination of classroom instruction and practical exercises. Among the
    topics covered during the classroom instruction are characteristics of a complex coordinated attack,
    public safety response considerations, command operations and strategies, and critical information
    about situational domain awareness. Several notable case studies are also presented to provide real-life
    examples of the characteristics of a complex coordinated attack. Featured practical exercises allow
    participants to interact with responders from other disciplines to effectively address a variety of
    complex coordinated attack scenarios. Participants will work together to identify critical considerations
    and command strategies. Further, these exercises encourage collaborative decision-making and rapid
    strategizing. Delivery Methods: Mobile, 16 hrs. Provided through Louisiana State University
    NCBRT/Academy of Counter-Terrorism Education free of charge.

Year three, session 3
Medical Preparedness and Response for Bombing Incidents, MGT 348
   This course is designed for personnel from any professional background who may become part of a
   community response to a bombing event. This interactive, instructor-facilitated program employs case
   studies and research-based information designed to enhance medical preparedness for and response to
   blast effects. Breakout sessions address considerations and concerns specific both to medical
   responders and emergency planners. Students are encouraged to ask questions and to create a to-do list
   of items they don’t have the answers to, so they have a list of tasks to address when they return to their
   jurisdiction. Delivery Methods: In-person, 16 hrs. Provided through TEEX free of charge.




                          10
Business Item #3
                                    DĂǇŽƌΖƐKĨĨŝĐĞ

                                   Interlocal Agreement with Murray
                                   School District for Music Specialist

                                   Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 17, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Consider Agreement to fund $21,577.46 to provide matching
Mayor Brett Hales        funds for Murray School District music specialist.
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Approve Agreement after which funds will need to be
801-264-2600             appropriated through a budget opening.
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Interlocal Agreement
Doug Hill

                    Budget Impact
                         $21,577.46 from the General Fund


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        For many years, the City and Murray School District have jointly
Presentation             funded a music specialist to provide music education and
                         instruction in the District. The FY2023 budget addendum (page
5 Minutes                24) stated the council's intent to appropriate these funds.
Is This Time             However, the funds were not included in the budget. Therefore,
                         if the Agreement is approved, funds will need to be appropriated
Sensitive                through a budget opening.
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 8, 2022
                                   RESOLUTION R23-

       A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION
       AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY AND MURRAY CITY SCHOOL
       DISTRICT (“DISTRICT”) RELATING TO MUSIC EDUCATION AND
       INSTRUCTION.

       WHEREAS, Title 11, Chapter 13, of the Utah Code provides that two or more
public agencies may enter into an agreement with one another for joint or cooperative
actions; and

      WHEREAS, the City and the District are “public agencies” as contemplated in
Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101, et. seq., Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

      WHEREAS, the City and the District have beneficially entered into cooperative
agreements for various projects; and

      WHEREAS, the City and the District have developed a long-term relationship of
cooperation and sharing of resources to do what is in the best interest of the
community; and

        WHEREAS, the City wants to encourage music education and instruction in the
District; and

        WHEREAS the City, subject to appropriation of funds by the City Council, wants
to allocate up to Twenty-One Thousand Five Hundred and Seventy-Seven Dollars and
46/100 Cents ($21,577.46) to provide the District with assistance in hiring and providing
music specialists and a district music trainer, subject to certain terms and conditions;
and

      WHEREAS, the Parties want to specify, in an Agreement, their respective
responsibilities with regard to the funds provided by the City to the District for music
education and instruction.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE Murray City Municipal Council
as follows:

       1.     It hereby approves the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement, in substantially
              the form attached hereto.

       2.     The Interlocal Cooperation Agreement is in the best interest of the City.

       3.     Mayor Brett A. Hales is hereby authorized to execute the Agreement on
              behalf of the City and act in accordance with its terms.

PASSED AND APPROVED this ___ day of ____________, 2023.
                              MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                              _______________________________
                                          , Chair

ATTEST:



_______________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
    0XUUD\&LW\$QQXDO%XGJHW                                                         Fiscal Year 2022/2023
                                                                                




    %8'*(7$''(1'80                                                                       


WƵďůŝĐŚĞĂƌŝŶŐƐĂƌĞƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚďĞĨŽƌĞƚŚĞŝƚǇǁĂŝǀĞĨĞĞƐ͕ĚŽŶĂƚĞƐƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ͕ŽƌƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĨƵŶĚƐͬƉƌŽƉĞƌƚǇƚŽŶŽŶͲƉƌŽĨŝƚ
ĞŶƚŝƚŝĞƐ͘dŽĂǀŽŝĚƚŚĞŶĞĞĚĨŽƌƐĞƉĂƌĂƚĞŚĞĂƌŝŶŐƐƚŚƌŽƵŐŚŽƵƚƚŚĞǇĞĂƌ͕ƚŚĞDĂǇŽƌ͛ƐďƵĚŐĞƚŝŶĐůƵĚĞƐƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ
ĂŶŶƵĂůŽƌŽŶĞͲƚŝŵĞƌĞƋƵĞƐƚƐ͗

    ϭ͘ sŽůƵŶƚĞĞƌƐŽĨŵĞƌŝĐĂŽŶĂƚĞĨƵŶĚƐĨŽƌŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĞǆƉĞŶƐĞƐĂƚƚŚĞsŽůƵŶƚĞĞƌƐŽĨŵĞƌŝĐĂĞŶƚĞƌĨŽƌtŽŵĞŶ
         ĂŶĚŚŝůĚƌĞŶŝŶDƵƌƌĂǇ͘sĂůƵĞ͗ΨϭϬ͕ϬϬϬ
         
    Ϯ͘ DƵƌƌĂǇĚƵĐĂƚŝŽŶ&ŽƵŶĚĂƚŝŽŶtĂŝǀĞŐŽůĨĐĂƌƚƌĞŶƚĂůĨĞĞƐĨŽƌĂŶŶƵĂůƚŽƵƌŶĂŵĞŶƚĂƚDƵƌƌĂǇWĂƌŬǁĂǇ'ŽůĨ
         ŽƵƌƐĞ͘sĂůƵĞ͗Ψϭ͕ϰϬϬ
    
    ϯ͘ hƚĂŚŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĐƚŝŽŶZĞĚƵĐĞĨĞĞƐĨŽƌDƵƌƌĂǇŝƚǇƵƚŝůŝƚŝĞƐĨŽƌůŽǁŝŶĐŽŵĞƌĞƐŝĚĞŶƚƐďĂƐĞĚŽŶ,d
         ƋƵĂůŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐ͘sĂůƵĞ͗ΨϭϬ͕ϬϬϬ

    ϰ͘ ŵĞƌŝĐĂŶ>ĞŐŝŽŶtĂŝǀĞƉĂƌŬƌĞŶƚĂůĨĞĞƐĨŽƌĂƐƚĞƌŐŐ,ƵŶƚ͘sĂůƵĞ͗ΨϮϮϱ

    ϱ͘ hƚĂŚ&ĂƌŵƵƌĞĂƵ&ĂƌŵĞƌƐDĂƌŬĞƚtĂŝǀĞƉĂƌŬƌĞŶƚĂůĨĞĞƐĨŽƌ&ĂƌŵĞƌƐDĂƌŬĞƚ͘sĂůƵĞ͗ΨϮ͕ϬϬϬ

    ϲ͘ ŽǇƐĂŶĚ'ŝƌůƐůƵďŽĨ'ƌĞĂƚĞƌ^Ăůƚ>ĂŬĞŽŶĂƚĞĨƵŶĚƐĨŽƌŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĞǆƉĞŶƐĞƐĂƚƚŚĞDƵƌƌĂǇŽǇƐĂŶĚ'ŝƌůƐ
         ůƵď͘sĂůƵĞ͗ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ

    ϳ͘ DŝƐƐDƵƌƌĂǇWĂŐĞĂŶƚŽŶĂƚĞĨƵŶĚƐĨŽƌƐĐŚŽůĂƌƐŚŝƉƐĂŶĚDƵƌƌĂǇŝƚǇĨůŽĂƚĂŶĚƉĂƌĂĚĞĞǆƉĞŶƐĞƐ͘sĂůƵĞ͗Ψϲ͕ϮϬϬ

    ϴ͘ DƵƌƌĂǇƌĞĂŚĂŵďĞƌŽĨŽŵŵĞƌĐĞŽŶĂƚĞĨƵŶĚƐĨŽƌŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐĂŶĚƚŚĞǇŽƵƚŚĐŚĂŵďĞƌ͘sĂůƵĞ͗ΨϮϰ͕ϲϬϬ

    ϵ͘ DƵƌƌĂǇƌĞĂŚĂŵďĞƌŽĨŽŵŵĞƌĐĞtĂŝǀĞŐŽůĨĐĂƌƚƌĞŶƚĂůĨĞĞƐĨŽƌĂŶŶƵĂůƚŽƵƌŶĂŵĞŶƚĂƚDƵƌƌĂǇWĂƌŬǁĂǇ
         'ŽůĨŽƵƌƐĞ͘sĂůƵĞ͗Ψϭ͕ϰϬϬ

    ϭϬ͘ĐŽŶŽŵŝĐĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚŽƌƉŽƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨhƚĂŚŽŶĂƚĞĨƵŶĚƐĨŽƌŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ͘sĂůƵĞ͗Ψϳ͕ϱϬϬ

    ϭϭ͘DƵƌƌĂǇ^ǇŵƉŚŽŶǇKƌĐŚĞƐƚƌĂŽŶĂƚĞĨƵŶĚƐĨŽƌŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ͘sĂůƵĞ͗ΨϮ͕ϱϬϬ

    ϭϮ͘DƵƌƌĂǇŽŶĐĞƌƚĂŶĚŽŶĂƚĞĨƵŶĚƐĨŽƌŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ͘sĂůƵĞ͗ΨϮ͕ϱϬϬ

    ϭϯ͘DƵƌƌĂǇ^ĐŚŽŽůŝƐƚƌŝĐƚŽŶĂƚĞŵĂƚĐŚŝŶŐĨƵŶĚƐĨŽƌƚŚĞŵƵƐŝĐƐƉĞĐŝĂůŝƐƚƉŽƐŝƚŝŽŶ͘sĂůƵĞ͗hƉƚŽΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ

    ϭϰ͘DƵƌƌĂǇ^ĐŚŽŽůŝƐƚƌŝĐƚWƌŽǀŝĚĞǁĂƚĞƌĞĚƵĐĂƚŝŽŶƚŚƌŽƵŐŚƚŚĞEĂƚŝŽŶĂůŶĞƌŐǇ&ŽƵŶĚĂƚŝŽŶĂŶĚĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞĚ
         ƉƌŝǌĞƐ͘sĂůƵĞ͗Ψϴ͕ϯϱϬ

    ϭϱ͘DƵƌƌĂǇǆĐŚĂŶŐĞůƵďtĂŝǀĞƉĂƌŬƌĞŶƚĂůĨĞĞƐĨŽƌ,ĂƵŶƚĞĚdƌĂŝů͘sĂůƵĞ͗Ψϵϳϱ

    ϭϲ͘ŵĞƌŝĐĂŶZĞĚƌŽƐƐtĂŝǀĞƉĂƌŬƌĞŶƚĂůĨĞĞƐĨŽƌƵƉƚŽϭϬďůŽŽĚĚƌŝǀĞƐ͘sĂůƵĞ͗Ψϭ͕ϬϬϬ

    ϭϳ͘hƚĂŚŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇ&ŽƌĞƐƚŽƵŶĐŝůWƌŽǀŝĚĞůĂďŽƌĂƐƐŝƐƚĂŶĐĞĨŽƌƚŚĞĂŶŶƵĂůhƚĂŚ^ƚĂƚĞdƌĞĞůŝŵďŝŶŐĐŽŵƉĞƚŝƚŝŽŶ͘
         sĂůƵĞ͗hƉƚŽΨϮ͕ϬϬϬ͘




         Adopted August 9, 2022                                                                        Page 24
                       INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT

                      BETWEEN MURRAY CITY CORPORATION AND
                         THE MURRAY CITY SCHOOL DISTIRCT

                                 Music Education and Instruction


       This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (“Agreement”) is made and entered into this ____

day of ________________, 2023, by and between Murray City Corporation, a Utah municipal

corporation (the “City”) and the Murray City School District, a political subdivision of the State

of Utah (the “District”).

                                           RECITALS

   1. The City and the District are “public agencies” authorized by the Utah Interlocal

       Cooperation Act, Title 11, Chapter 13 of the Utah Code, to enter into agreements with

       each other for joint and cooperative action which will enable them to make the most

       efficient use of their powers on a basis of mutual advantage.

   2. The City and the District have developed a long-term relationship of cooperation and

       sharing of resources to do what is in the best interest of the community.

   3. The City wants to encourage music education and instruction in the District.

   4. The City, subject to appropriation by the City Council, wants to allocate up to TWENTY-

       ONE THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY-SEVEN DOLLARS AND

       46/100 CENTS ($21,577.46) to provide the District with assistance in hiring and

       providing Music Specialists and a District Music Trainer, subject to the terms and

       conditions of this Agreement.

   5. The Parties want to outline their respective responsibilities regarding the funds provided

       by the City to the District for such music instruction.
NOW THEREFORE, based on the conditions herein, the Parties agree as follows:

                                     AGREEMENT

1. The City shall allocate up to TWENTY-ONE THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED AND

   SEVENTY-SEVEN DOLLARS AND 46/100 CENTS ($21,577.46) in the 2022-2023

   school year to provide assistance to the District for music education. This assistance is

   intended to help the District hire employees to work as Music Specialists and a District

   Music Trainer. City assistance shall be matched by the District at least 1:1 for verified

   expenses related to Music Specialists. Verified expenses include hourly salary, in-service

   trainings, and supplies.

2. On a monthly basis, the District shall forward to the City documentation of the actual

   expenses incurred by the District related to the Music Specialists, and shall provide a

   written report showing that the conditions set forth in Section 3 of this Agreement have

   been met. The expense documentation and written reports shall be submitted to the City

   by the 15th of each month.

3. Assistance from the City to the District is conditioned upon the following:

       a. Each classroom will receive at least 30 minutes of music instruction each week

           with exceptions provided for holidays and occasional scheduling conflicts;

       b. Music Specialists will receive regular in-service training by a District Music

           Trainer, or receive funding for conference fees to attend at least one music in-

           service training/conference provided by other educational agencies;

       c. Each Music Specialist shall be given a reasonable budget for supplies for his/her

           classroom instructional needs specific to music instruction;
       d. Music Specialists, although not required to have music teaching degrees or

           endorsements, must provide evidence of a reasonable minimum background in

           music instruction;

       e. The financial assistance to be provided by the City shall only be used for expenses

           and items directly related to classroom music instruction provided by the Music

           Specialists; and

       f. Music Specialists will be paid for appropriate preparation time.

4. Should the conditions above not be met to the reasonable satisfaction of the City, the City

   shall have no obligation to provide any financial assistance to the District, regardless of

   expenditures made by the District and regardless of whether the City approved the

   District’s request for assistance prior to the beginning of that year’s school year.

5. The District and the City are governmental entities under the Utah Governmental

   Immunity Act (“Act”). Therefore, consistent with the terms of the Act, the District and

   the City agree that each is responsible and liable for any wrongful or negligent acts which

   it commits or is committed by its agents or employees. Neither the District nor the City

   waives any defenses or limits of liability otherwise available under the Act and all other

   applicable laws and both the District and the City maintain all privileges, immunities and

   other rights granted by the Act and other applicable laws.

6. This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the

   subject matter hereof, and no statements, promises, or inducements made by either Party

   or agents for either Party that are not contained in this written contract shall be binding or

   valid; and this Agreement may not be enlarged, modified, or altered except in writing,

   and signed by the Parties.
7. The Parties mutually agree that funding will be allocated by the Parties as a part of their

   respective annual budgeting processes. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to

   bind the decision of the future legislative bodies of the City.

8. No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement.

9. The District and the City shall not subcontract, assign or transfer any rights or duties

   under this Agreement without prior written consent of the other party.

10. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should any provision herein be

   deemed void, voidable, unenforceable, or invalid, such void, voidable, unenforceable or

   invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

11. This Agreement shall stay in effect until the parties, or their assignees terminate the

   Agreement. This Agreement may be terminated by either Party for any or no reason

   upon fifteen (15) days written notice of termination. Both Parties agree that the

   terminating Party's election to terminate this Agreement will not be deemed a termination

   for default nor will it entitle the other Party to any rights or remedies provided by law or

   this Agreement for breach of contract by the terminating Party, or any other claim or

   cause of action.

12. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the

   State of Utah.



                                (Signature Page to Follow)
      DATED as of the day and year first written above.



MURRAY CITY CORPORATION                          MURRAY CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT



______________________________                   ________________________________
Brett A. Hales, Mayor                            Jennifer Covington, Superintendent

ATTEST:


______________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

APPROVED AS TO FORM:



______________________________
G.L. Critchfield, City Attorney

APPROVED AS TO CONTENT:



______________________________
Kim Sorensen, Director, Murray City
Parks and Recreation Department
Adjournment
