 Council Meeting
November 14, 2023
                         Murray City Municipal Council
                          City Council Meeting Notice
                                     November 14, 2023


PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Murray City Municipal Council will hold a City Council meeting
beginning at 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday, November 14, 2023 in the Murray City Council Chambers located at
Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Murray, Utah.

The public may view the Council Meeting via the live stream at www.murraycitylive.com or
https://www.facebook.com/Murraycityutah/. Those wishing to have their comments read into the record
may send an email by 5:00 p.m. the day prior to the meeting date to city.council@murray.utah.gov.
Comments are limited to less than three minutes (approximately 300 words for emails) and must include
your name and address.

Meeting Agenda

7:00 p.m.      Council Meeting – Council Chambers
               Pam Cotter conducting.

Opening Ceremonies
      Call to Order
      Pledge of Allegiance

Approval of Minutes
      None scheduled.

Special Recognition
   1. Murray City Employee of the Month, Kathy Miller, Mayor’s Office Administrative
       Assistant – Brett Hales and Pam Cotter presenting.
   2. Consider a Joint Resolution of the Mayor and Murray City Municipal Council recognizing
       National Hispanic Heritage Month in Murray City. Rosalba Dominguez presenting.

Citizen Comments
        Comments will be limited to three minutes, step to the microphone, state your name
        and city of residence, and fill out the required form.

Consent Agenda
      None scheduled.

Public Hearings
       None scheduled.
Murray City Council Agenda
November 14, 2023                                                                                                                2


Business Items
   1. Consider a resolution requesting the recertification of the Murray City Municipal Justice
       Court. Doug Hill and Karen Gallegos presenting.
   2. Consider a resolution to acknowledge completion and receipt of the independent audit
       for Fiscal Year 2022-2023 and direct that notice be published pursuant to Section 10-6-
       152 of the Utah Code. Brenda Moore presenting.
   3. Consider a resolution authorizing the issuance and sale of not more than $25,000,000
       aggregate principal amount of Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2024; and related matters.
       Brenda Moore presenting.
   4. Consider a resolution adopting the regular meeting schedule of the Murray City
       Municipal Council for calendar year 2024. Jennifer Kennedy presenting.

Mayor’s Report and Questions

Adjournment

NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City Recorder
(801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the other
Council Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers will be able to hear all discussions.

On Thursday, November 9, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer
of the Murray City Center, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City Recorder.
A copy of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing website at
http://pmn.utah.gov .




                                                                      Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                      Council Executive Director
                                                                      Murray City Municipal Council
   Call to Order
Pledge of Allegiance
 Special
Recognition
   Special
Recognition #1
                                   City Council/Mayor

                                   Employee of the Month - Kathy
                                   Miller

                                   ŽƵŶĐŝů DĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗November 14, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 ŵƉůŽǇĞĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ DŽŶƚŚ ƌĞĐŽŐŶŝƚŝŽŶ
Jennifer Kennedy
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  /ŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶĂů ŽŶůǇ
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         ZĞĐŽŐŶŝƚŝŽŶ &Žƌŵ
Pam Cotter
Brett Hales
                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        See Employee of the Month Recognition Form
Presentation


Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
October 31, 2023
                           EMPLOYEE OF THE MONTH RECOGNITION



DEPARTMENT:                                              DATE:




NAME of person to be recognized:                         Submitted by:




DIVISION AND JOB TITLE:




YEARS OF SERVICE:



REASON FOR RECOGNITION:




COUNCIL USE:

MONTH/YEAR HONORED
   Special
Recognition #2
                                    City Council

                                    National Hispanic Heritage Month


                                    Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗November 14, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Joint Resolution recognizing National Hispanic Heritage Month
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ <ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Approval of attached resolution
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Joint Resolution
Jennifer Kennedy

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        Approve a Joint Resolution of the Mayor and Council recognizing
Presentation             National Hispanic Heritage Month in Murray City.



Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
October 3, 2023
                                     Joint Resolution No. R23-59


A JOINT RESOLUTION OF THE MAYOR AND MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL
COUNCIL RECOGNIZING NATIONAL HISPANIC HERITAGE MONTH IN MURRAY
CITY

WHEREAS, Hispanic Heritage Month began as a commemorative week, when
Congress passed Public Law 90-48 on September 17, 1968, officially authorizing, and
requesting the president to issue annual proclamations declaring September 15 and 16
to mark the beginning of National Hispanic Heritage Week; President Lyndon B.
Johnson issued the first Hispanic Heritage Week presidential proclamation the same
day1; and

WHEREAS, on August 17, 1988, President Ronald Reagan signed into law a bill to
expand the commemorative week into a Hispanic Heritage Month; and on September
14, 1989 President George H. W. Bush declared the period of September 15 to October
15 as National Heritage Month; and

WHEREAS, September 15 was chosen as the kickoff date because it coincided with the
independence day celebrations of five Central American neighbors, Costa Rica, El
Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua; Additionally, National Hispanic
Heritage Month coincides with the dates in September in which Mexico, Chile and
Belize declared their independence (September 16, 1810, September 18, 1810, and
September 21, 1981, respectively); and

WHEREAS, Murray City proudly recognized National Hispanic Heritage Month from
September 15 to October 15, 2023, in honor of the historic and cultural contributions of
the Hispanic community in our City, state and the United States; and

WHEREAS, Hispanic Americans have been integral to the prosperity of the United
States. Their contributions to the nation are immeasurable, and they embody the best of
American values. The Hispanic America community has left an indelible mark on U.S.
culture and economy; and

WHEREAS, just as Hispanic Americans have impact the United States, it is also true of
the impact of Hispanic Americans on Murray City; and

WHEREAS, many members of the Hispanic community trace their roots to the cultures
of various groups including the indigenous peoples of the Americas, Spanish and other
European explorers, or to enslaved Africans who were brought to the Americas against
their own will; and



1
    https://www.history.com/topics/hispanic-history/hispanic-heritage-month
WHEREAS, Murray City recognize the significant contributions by the Hispanic
community in all parts of our society including, but not limited to, economics, politics,
sciences, healthcare, and education; and

WHEREAS, the Hispanic community represents 10.9%2 of the population of Murray City
and is an important and vital part to the fabric of our community; and

WHEREAS, in 2023, there were close to 500,0003 or more Hispanic residents in the
State of Utah; and

WHEREAS, the Hispanic community have served in all branches of the Armed Forces
and fought bravely to defend liberty and democracy in every war in the history of the
United States; and

WHEREAS, Murray City recognizes and honors the resilience of those in the Hispanic
community who overcame discrimination and prejudice so they themselves, and their
families, could attain the American dream; and

WHEREAS, in 2020, Hispanics from all corners of the state of Utah have participated in
and enjoyed commerce activities within Murray City, including at Fashion Place Mall;
and

WHEREAS, in 2020, the annual purchasing power of Hispanic Americans was an
estimated $1,900,000,000,000, accounting for 11.1% of U.S. buying power, which is an
amount greater than the economy of all except 17 countries in the world4; and

WHEREAS, Mexico is one of the main trading partners of the state of Utah benefiting
families in both locations with the creation of job opportunities and exchange of
knowledge and technology; and

WHEREAS, there is not a comprehensive history of the considerable contributions of
the Hispanic community in Murray City; some stories we may never know, and some
are yet to be discovered; and

WHEREAS, there are extensive and significant achievements and contributions of the
Hispanic community in Murray City; and

WHEREAS, Hispanic Heritage Month is an opportunity to recognize Hispanic residents,
business owners, organizations, and educators of Murray City; and



2
    https://www.census.gov/quickfacts/fact/table/murraycityutah/RHI725221
3
    https://www.census.gov/quickfacts/fact/table/UT/PST045221
4
  https://news.uga.edu/selig-multicultural-economy-report-
2021/#:~:text=Hispanic%20buying%20power%20also%20has,from%20only%205%25%20in%201990.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the Mayor and Murray City Municipal
Council that the City hereby recognizes the celebration of National Hispanic Heritage
Month from September 15th – October 15th, 2022, and encourages the Murray City
community to join us in celebrating the great contributions of Hispanic and Hispanic
Americans to our city, state, and nation.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 14th day of November 2023


MAYOR                                          MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL


________________________                       _____________________________
Brett A. Hales                                 David Rodgers, District 1


                                               _____________________________
                                               Pam Cotter, District 2


                                               _____________________________
                                               Rosalba Dominguez, District 3


                                               _____________________________
                                               Diane Turner, District 4


                                               _____________________________
                                               Garry Hrechkosy, District 5
          Citizen
         Comments
Limited to three minutes, unless otherwise approved by Council
Business Items
Business Item #1
                                     Mayor's Office

                                     Recertifying the Murray Justice
                                     Court

                                     ŽƵŶĐŝů DĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                     DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗November 14, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 State statute requires that municipal justice courts be re-certified by
Mayor Brett Hales        the Utah Judicial Council every four years.

                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider approval of Resolution
801-264-2600
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Resolution, Final Recertification Packet, Judge Affidavit
Doug Hill
Karen Gallegos
                    Budget Impact
                         N/A


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        State statute requires that municipal justice courts be re-certified by
                         the Utah Judicial Council every four years. Because certification of the
Presentation             Murray Justice Court expires on January 31, 2024.
ϭϬ DŝŶƵƚĞƐ
                         In order to be re-certified, the Judicial Council requires that Murray
Is This Time             submit the following:
Sensitive                        - an affidavit completed by Judge Thompson
Yes                              - an opinion letter from the city's attorney
                                 - a resolution adopted by the city council
Mayor’s Approval
                         Each of these items is described in more detail in the attached packet.
                         To ensure that the Board of Justice Court Judges has sufficient time to
                         review your application and make a recommendation to the Judicial
                         Council, all materials must be received by the Administrative Office of
Date                     the Courts no later than December 15, 2023.
October 26, 2023
                                RESOLUTION NO.__________


       A RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE RECERTIFICATION OF THE MURRAY CITY
       MUNICIPAL JUSTICE COURT.

        WHEREAS, the provisions of U.C.A. 78A-7-103(2) require that Justice Courts be
recertified at the end of each four-year term; and

       WHEREAS, the term of the present Court shall expire on the 31st day of January, 2024;
and

        WHEREAS, the members of the Murray City Municipal Council have received an
opinion letter from the City Attorney, which sets forth the requirements for the operation of a
Justice Court and feasibility of continuing to maintain the same; and

         WHEREAS, the members of the Murray City Municipal Council have determined that it
is in the best interests of the City to continue to provide for a Justice Court;

        BE IT RESOLVED, the Murray City Municipal Council hereby requests recertification
of the Murray City Municipal Justice Court by the Board of Justice Court Judges and the Utah
Judicial Council.

        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Murray City Municipal Council hereby affirms
the City’s willingness to continue to meet all requirements set forth by the Judicial Council for
continued operation of the Murray City Municipal Justice Court for the next four-year term,
except as to any requirements waived by the Utah Judicial Council.

      PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on this
___ day of November 2023.

                                             MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL


                                             _____________________________________
                                             Garry Hrechkosy, Chair

ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
        APPLICATION
   FOR RECERTIFICATION
OF EXISTING JUSTICE COURTS




        OCTOBER 2023
              INSTRUCTIONS TO APPLICANT FOR RECERTIFICATION

        As part of the recertification process, each entity should carefully review all requirements
for the operation of justice courts. These requirements now include changes to Appendix B of
the Code of Judicial Administration which took effect on May 1, 2023.

         In order to aid governing bodies in obtaining the necessary information regarding the
continuing obligations of an entity with respect to the operation of the justice court, the governing
body of each entity must request and review a written opinion from its attorney advising the entity
of all requirements for the operation of a justice court, and the feasibility of maintaining a justice
court. This opinion must address all requirements for operating a justice court, including those
which took effect earlier this year. In addition, prior to submission of this application, each entity
must duly pass a resolution requesting recertification. The resolution must also affirm that the
entity is willing to meet all requirements for, and operation of, the court during the period of
certification. A copy of the attorney’s opinion and the resolution must accompany the
application. Please use the checklist on page 24 of this packet.

       (1) Statutory Requirements. Statutes of the State of Utah require that certain standards
be met in the operation of a justice court. These statutory requirements include:

        (1)(A) All official court business shall be conducted in a courtroom or an office located in
a public facility which is conducive and appropriate to the administration of justice (Section 78A-
7-213).

       (1)(B) Each court shall be open and judicial business shall be transacted every day as
provided by law (Section 78A-7-213), although the judge is not required to be present during all
hours that the court is open.

        (1)(C) The hours that the court will be open shall be posted conspicuously at the court and
in local public buildings (Section 78A-7-213).

       (1)(D) The judge and the clerk of the court shall attend the court at regularly scheduled
times (Section 78A-7-213).

        (1)(E) The entity operating the justice court shall provide and compensate a judge and
clerical personnel to conduct the business of the court (Section 78A-7-206).

        (1)(F) The entity operating a justice court shall assume the expenses of travel, meals, and
lodging for the judge of that court to attend required judicial education and training (Section 78A-
7-205).

        (1)(G) The entity operating a justice court shall assume the cost of travel and training
expenses of clerical personnel at training sessions conducted by the Judicial Council (Section 78A-
7-103).

       (1)(H) The entity operating the justice court shall provide a sufficient staff of public
prosecutors to attend the court and perform the duties of prosecution (Section 78A-7-103).



                                                  1
       (1)(I) The entity operating the court shall provide adequate funding for attorneys where
persons are indigent as provided by law (Section 78A-7-103).

        (1)(J) The entity operating the court shall provide sufficient local law enforcement
officers to attend court when required and provide security for the court (Section 78A-7-103).

       (1)(K) Witness and jury fees as required by law shall be paid by the entity which operates
the court (Sections 10-7-76 and 17-50-319).

        (1)(L) Any fine, surcharge, or assessment which is payable to the State shall be forwarded
to the State as required by law (Sections 78A-7-120 and 78A-7-121).

      (1)(M) Every entity operating a court shall pay the judge of that court a fixed
compensation, within the range provided by statute (Section 78A-7-206).

       (1)(N) Court shall be held within the jurisdiction of the court, except as provided by law
(Section 78A-7-212).

        (1)(O) The entity operating the court shall provide and keep current for the court a copy
of the Utah Code, the Utah Court Rules Annotated, the justice court manual published by the state
court administrator, the county, city, or town ordinances as appropriate, and other legal reference
materials as determined to be necessary by the judge (Section 78A-7-103).

        (1)(P) All required reports and audits shall be filed as required by law or by rule of the
Judicial Council (Section 78A-7-215).

        (1)(Q) All justice courts shall use a common case management system and disposition
reporting system as specified by the Judicial Council (Section 78A-7-213).

        (2) Judicial Council Minimum Requirements. In addition to those requirements which
are directly imposed by statute, the Judicial Council has established additional requirements for
the creation and ongoing certification of justice courts, as follows:

       (2)(A) A clerk shall be available for at least one hour each day that the court is required to
              be open and during court hearings, as required by the judge. These hours shall be
              posted on the court’s website.

       (2)(B) The judge shall be available to conduct court business as needed, performing all
              duties required and exercising ultimate responsibility for the administration of
              justice as an independent branch of government.

       (2)(C) All court hearings shall be conducted in a designated courtroom, including remote
              transmission, as permitted by the Judicial Council, or in another location authorized
              by the Presiding Judge.

       (2)(D) The minimum furnishings for a courtroom shall include: a desk and chair for the
              judge (on a riser at least six inches above the well), a desk and chair for the court
              clerk, chairs for witnesses, separate tables and appropriate chairs for plaintiffs and


                                                 2
       defendants, a Utah State flag, a United States flag, a separate area and chairs for at
       least four jurors, a separate area with appropriate seating for the public, an
       appropriate room for jury deliberations, and an appropriate area or room for victims
       and witnesses, which is separate from the public, as well as a judicial robe, a gavel,
       and necessary forms and supplies.

(2)(E) Office space for the judge and clerk shall be appropriate. (Under certain
       circumstances this space may be shared, but if shared, the judge and clerk must
       have priority to use the space whenever needed.) The office space shall include a
       desk for the judge and a desk for the clerk, secure filing cabinets for the judge and
       the clerk, a telephone for the judge and a telephone for the clerk, appropriate office
       supplies to conduct court business, a cash register or secured cash box for each
       clerk performing cashiering duties, a computer with word processing software, and
       access to a scanner and copy machine.

(2)(F) The court shall provide interpreters as required by Rule 3-306.04 of the Code of
       Judicial Administration.

(2)(G) The entity shall have at least one peace officer (which may be contracted).

(2)(H) A current court security plan shall be submitted for approval as required by Rule 3-
       414 of the Code of Judicial Administration.

(2)(I) Each court shall have at least one computer with access to the internet, and
       appropriate software and security/encryption technology to allow for electronic
       reporting and access to the Driver License Division and the Bureau of Criminal
       Identification, as defined by the reporting and retrieval standards promulgated by
       the Department of Public Safety.

(2)(J) Each court shall report required case disposition information to the DLD, BCI and
       the Administrative Office of the Courts electronically, as described in Section (2)(I)
       above.

(2)(K) Clerks’ education hours shall be reported to the Administrative Office of the Courts
       on an annual basis.

(2)(L) The appointment of the clerk(s) assigned to serve the court shall be subject to the
       judge’s approval, who may participate in the interview and personnel evaluation
       process for the clerk(s) at his or her discretion.

(2)(M) Court staff shall be certified as contemplated by Rule 3-303 of the Code of Judicial
       Administration.

(2)(N) Any interlocal agreement relating to court operations, as amended to date, shall be
       provided to the Justice Court Administrator.

(2)(O) The court shall accept credit and debit cards through a system that integrates with
       CORIS.


                                         3
       (2)(P) The court shall have access to UCJIS.

       (2)(Q) An audio recording system shall maintain a digital recording of all court
proceedings (78A-7-103).

               (2)(Q)(i) For Class I and Class II justice courts, the system must:

                   (a) be a stand-alone unit that records and audibly plays back the recording;
                   (b) index, back-up and archive the recording and enable the record to be
                       retrieved;
                   (c) have at least four recording channels;
                   (d) have a one step “on” and “off” recording function;
                   (e) have conference monitoring of recorded audio;
                   (f) have external record archiving from the unit with local access;
                   (g) be capable of being integrated with the courts public address system; and

               (2)(Q)(ii) For Class III and Class IV justice courts, the system must, at a minimum:

                   (a) be a stand-alone unit that records and audibly plays back the recording;
                   (b) index, back-up and archive the recording and enable the record to be
                       retrieved; and
                   (c) have at least two recording channels.

               (2)(Q)(iii) The Board of Justice Court Judges may create a list of products that meet
               these criteria.

        In establishing minimum requirements, the Judicial Council has determined that justice
courts with higher case filings require greater support services. To accommodate the great
differences in judicial activity among justice courts throughout the state, the Council has divided
courts into four classes based upon the average monthly cases filed in that court. Minimum
standards have been set for each classification.

       Courts which have an average of fewer than 61 cases filed each month are classified as
Class IV Courts. The minimum requirements for a Class IV Court are set forth above. These
requirements include both the statutory requirements and requirements promulgated by the Judicial
Council, and are sometimes hereinafter referred to as “base requirements.”

        Courts which have an average of more than 60 but fewer than 201 cases filed each month
are classified as Class III Courts. In addition to the base requirements, a Class III Court must be
open more hours each week (see Class III minimum requirements below), and court must be
scheduled at least twice per month.

        Courts which have an average of more than 200 but fewer than 501 cases filed each month
are classified as Class II Courts. In addition to the base requirements, Class II Courts are required
to be open additional hours (see Class II minimum requirements below), the courtroom
configuration is required to be permanent (although the courtroom may be used by another entity
when the court is not in session), court must be scheduled at least weekly, the judge must be


                                                 4
provided an appropriate office (chambers) for his or her own use, clerical space may not be shared,
at least one full-time clerk must be provided (see Class II minimum requirements below), and the
courtroom, judge’s chambers and clerk’s office must be in the same building.

        Courts which have an average monthly filing of more than 500 cases are classified as Class
I Courts. Class I Courts are considered to be full-time courts. In addition to the base requirements,
a Class I Court must have a full-time judge, at least three full-time clerks, at least one of whom is
available during regular business hours, it must have a courtroom which is dedicated for the
exclusive use as a court and meets the master plan guideline adopted by the Judicial Council, and
the judge’s chambers and clerk’s office cannot be shared by another entity.

        The State Legislature has provided that any justice court that continues to meet the
minimum requirements for its class is entitled to be recertified. The Judicial Council also has
authority to waive any minimum requirement which has not been specifically imposed by the
legislature (i.e. requirements (1)(A)-(1)(Q) above). Waiver is at the discretion of the Judicial
Council and will be based upon a demonstrated need for a court to conduct judicial business and
upon public convenience. Any waiver will generally be for the entire term of the certification. A
waiver must be obtained through the Judicial Council each time a court is recertified, and the fact
that a waiver has been previously granted will not be determinative on the issue of waiver for any
successive application.

        There is a great diversity in the needs of the justice courts. The needs of a particular court
are affected by the type of cases filed (some courts have a high percentage of traffic matters, while
others handle significant numbers of criminal and small claims matters), the location of the court,
the number of law enforcement agencies served, the policies and procedures followed by each
judge with respect to the operation of the court, and many other factors. Clerical resources and
judicial time are particularly sensitive to local conditions. In order to adequately function, it is
anticipated that some courts will exceed minimum requirements for clerical resources and judicial
time. Similarly, the particular circumstances of a court may allow it to operate efficiently with less
than the minimum requirements in the above areas; in such circumstances a waiver may be
requested.

        The statute also provides that the Judicial Council may grant an extension of time for any
requirement which is not specifically required by statute. An extension may be granted at the
discretion of the Judicial Council where individual circumstances temporarily prevent the entity
from meeting a minimum requirement. An extension will be for a specific period of time and the
certification of the court will terminate at the end of the extension period. In order for the court to
continue to operate beyond the extension period, the court must be certified as meeting all
requirements, obtain an additional extension, or obtain a waiver as provided above.

        Applications for existing courts for recertification must be accompanied by an affidavit of
the judge, on a form approved by the Judicial Council, certifying that the operational standards for
the court have been met. Any exceptions to compliance with the minimum requirements or
operational standards shall be noted on the above form. In addition, individual justice court judges
must meet with the governing body of the entity which created the court at least once a year to
review the budget of the court, review compliance with the requirements and operational standards
of the court, and discuss other items of common concern and shall certify that this meeting has
been held, and that the operational standards for the court have been met during the prior year.


                                                  5
        Upon submission of an application, the Board of Justice Court Judges will conduct an
appropriate independent investigation and notify the entity of its initial recommendations, whether
in favor or against certification. If the Board intends to recommend against certification, it shall
specify the minimum requirements that have not been met. The entity may then present additional
information to the Board, request an extension, or request a waiver. After making an appropriate
investigation based upon any additional information or request made by the entity, the Board will
then submit its recommendations to the Judicial Council. The recommendations shall specify
whether or not a waiver or extension should be granted, if either has been requested. If the
recommendation is against recertification, or against waiver, or against extension, the entity may
request that it be allowed to make an appearance before the Judicial Council. Any request to appear
before the Judicial Council must be filed within 15 days of notification of the Board’s
recommendations.

       If you have any questions concerning this application, please contact James Peters, Justice
Court Administrator, by calling (801) 578-3824 or emailing jamesp@utcourts.gov.




                                                 6
                                OPERATIONAL STANDARDS

        The following standards are intended to be applied in the recertification review by the
Board of Justice Court Judges as operational standards. The justice courts are classified into four
classes, based upon case filings. The case filing information is expressed in terms of filings per
month, but courts will be classified on the basis of average monthly filings over a period of at least
one year.

         The classification of a court is determined at creation and is subject to review and possible
reclassification twice per year. While the standards for some areas of court operation are uniform
for all classifications of justice court, other standards are developed on a continuum, reflecting the
difference in the time needed to competently manage caseloads at different levels.

        Waiver or extension of any requirement promulgated by the Judicial Council may be
obtained at the discretion of the Judicial Council based upon the need for a court. Considerations
for waiver or extension will be made on a case by case basis in consideration of, among other
things, public convenience and proximity to other courts.

                                             CLASS I

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS [Note that the following are minimum requirements. In order
to adequately function as a Class I Court, it may be necessary for your court to exceed the minimum
requirements.]

- FILINGS:
       501 or more citations or cases filed per month

- HOURS:
     Court Open: Full time
     Judge: Full time

- FACILITY:
      Dedicated Courtroom (with juror deliberation room)
      Judge’s Chambers
      Clerk Office
      Co-located in the same facility
      (Meet the Master Plan Guidelines adopted by the Judicial Council)

- CLERICAL RESOURCES:
      At least three full-time clerks

- PROSECUTION:
      Prosecutor to screen cases and represent the county or municipality at trial.

- INDIGENT DEFENSE:
      The municipality or county provides adequate funding to provide indigent defense counsel
      for any defendant who requests representation and qualifies.



                                                  7
- LEGAL RESOURCES:
     The following must be available and kept current:
           a. Utah Code
           b. Local ordinances
           c. Justice Court Manual
           d. Other legal resources as required under 78A-7-103.

- LAW ENFORCEMENT:
     The local government creating the court must have at least one employed or contracted
     peace officer.

- BAILIFF:
      The local government creating the court must provide a sworn law enforcement officer to
      attend court when required and provide security for the court.

- SECURITY PLAN:
      A court security plan must be submitted for approval consistent with Rule 3-414 of the
      Code of Judicial Administration.

- JURY/ WITNESS FEES:
      Local government is responsible for payment of statutory juror and witness fees.

- EDUCATION:
     Local government is responsible for cost of attendance at Judicial Council mandated
     training (at least 30 hours per year for the judge and certification requirements for
     clerks).

- REPORTING:
      All reports and audits shall be made and timely filed as provided by law or by rule of
      Judicial Council. Reports to the Driver License Division and the Bureau of Criminal
      Identification must be made electronically (via the internet).


                                           CLASS II

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS [Note that the following are minimum requirements. In order
to adequately function as a Class II Court, it may be necessary for your court to exceed the
minimum requirements.]

- FILINGS:
       201 to 500 citations or cases a month.




                                                8
- HOURS:
     Court Open:
            201-300 filings      At least 4 hours per day
            301-400 filings      At least 5 hours per day
            401-500 filings      At least 6 hours per day
     Judge available when needed. Trial calendar set at least weekly.

- FACILITY:
      Courtroom (configuration is permanent but may be shared)
      Judge’s Office
      Clerk Office
      (Courtroom and office must be co-located in the same building)

- CLERICAL RESOURCES:
      201-275 filings At least one full-time clerk
      276-350 filings 1.5 FTEs
      351-425 filings 2.0 FTEs
      426-500 filings 2.5 FTEs

- PROSECUTION:
      Prosecutor to screen cases and represent the county or municipality at trial.

- INDIGENT DEFENSE:
      The municipality or county provides adequate funding to provide indigent defense counsel
      for any defendant who requests representation and qualifies.

- LEGAL RESOURCES:
     The following must be available and kept current:
            a. Utah Code
            b. Local ordinances
            c. Justice Court Manual
            d. Other legal resources as required under 78A-7-103

- LAW ENFORCEMENT:
     The local government creating the court must have at least one employed or contracted
     peace officer.

- BAILIFF:
      The local government creating the court must provide a sworn law enforcement officer to
      attend court when required and provide security for the court.

- SECURITY PLAN:
      A court security plan must be submitted for approval consistent with Rule 3-414 of the
      Code of Judicial Administration.

- JURY/ WITNESS FEES:
      Local government is responsible for payment of statutory juror and witness fees.



                                                9
- EDUCATION:
     Local government is responsible for costs of attendance at Judicial Council mandated
     training (at least 30 hours per year for the judge and certification requirements for clerks).

- REPORTING:
      All reports and audits shall be made and timely filed as provided by law or by rule of
      Judicial Council. Reports to the Driver License Division and the Bureau of Criminal
      Identification must be made electronically, via the internet.


                                           CLASS III

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS [Note that the following are minimum requirements. In order
to adequately function as a Class III Court, it may be necessary for your court to exceed the
minimum requirements.]

- FILINGS:
       61-200 citations or cases per month

- HOURS:
     Court Open
     61-150 filings        At least 2 hours a day
     151-200 filings       At least 3 hours a day
     Judge available as needed. Trial calendar set at least twice per month.

- FACILITY:
      Courtroom (access to public facility for trials, arraignments, etc.)
      Judge’s /clerk office
      (Meets minimum requirements)

- CLERICAL RESOURCES:
      At least one clerk required to be available daily during the scheduled hours of court
      operation and during court sessions as needed.

- PROSECUTION:
      Prosecutor to screen cases and represent the county or municipality at trial.

- INDIGENT DEFENSE:
      The municipality or county provides adequate funding to provide indigent defense counsel
      for any defendant who requests representation and qualifies.

- LEGAL RESOURCES:
     The following must be available and kept current:
            a. Utah Code
            b. Local ordinances
            c. Justice Court Manual
            d. Other legal resources as required under 78A-7-103



                                                10
- LAW ENFORCEMENT:
     The local government creating the court must have at least one employed or contracted
     peace officer.

- BAILIFF:
      The local government creating the court must provide a sworn law enforcement officer to
      attend court when required and provide security for the court.

- SECURITY PLAN:
      A court security plan must be submitted for approval consistent with Rule 3-414 of the
      Code of Judicial Administration.

- JURY/ WITNESS FEES:
      Local government is responsible for payment of statutory juror and witness fees.

- EDUCATION:
     Local government is responsible for costs of attendance at Judicial Council mandated
     training (at least 30 hours each year for the judge and certification requirements for clerks).

- REPORTING:
      All reports and audits shall be made and timely filed as provided by law or by rule of
      Judicial Council. Reports to the Driver License Division and the Bureau of Criminal
      Identification must be made electronically, via the internet.


                                            CLASS IV

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS [Note that the following are minimum requirements. In order
to adequately function as a Class IV Court, it may be necessary for your court to exceed the
minimum requirements.]

- FILINGS:
       0-60 citations and/or cases per month

- HOURS:
     Court open at least one hour per day. Judge available as needed and trial calendar set at
     least monthly.

- FACILITY:
      Courtroom (access to public facility for trials, arraignments, etc.)
      Judge’s/clerk office (can be a shared resource but court has priority when needed.)
      (Meets minimum requirements)

- CLERICAL RESOURCES:
      At least one clerk required to be available daily during the scheduled hours of court
      operation and during court sessions as needed.




                                                11
- PROSECUTION:
      Prosecutor to screen cases and represent the county or municipality at trial.

- INDIGENT DEFENSE:
      The municipality or county provides adequate funding to provide indigent defense counsel
      for any defendant who requests representation and qualifies.

- LEGAL RESOURCES:
     The following must be available and kept current:
            a. Utah Code
            b. Local ordinances
            c. Justice Court Manual
            d. Other legal resources as required under 78A-7-103

- LAW ENFORCEMENT:
     The local government creating the court must have at least one employed or contracted
     peace officer.

- BAILIFF:
      The local government creating the court must provide a sworn law enforcement officer to
      attend court when required and provide security for the court.

- SECURITY PLAN:
      A court security plan must be submitted for approval consistent with Rule 3-414 of the
      Code of Judicial Administration.

- JURY/ WITNESS FEES:
      Local government is responsible for payment of statutory juror and witness fees.

- EDUCATION:
     Local government is responsible for costs of attendance at Judicial Council mandated
     training (at least 30 hours each year for the judge and certification requirements for clerks).

- REPORTING:
      All reports and audits shall be made and timely filed as provided by law or by rule of
      Judicial Council. Reports to the Driver License Division and the Bureau of Criminal
      Identification must be made electronically, via the internet.




                                                12
            MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR THE COURTROOM AND OFFICE

         Utah Justice Courts handle a very high volume of cases. With this magnitude of cases, it is
likely that any contact an average citizen will have with the Utah Judicial System will be through
the justice courts. In many instances, this contact will be a citizen’s only impression of Utah’s
system of justice and, even in minor cases, is likely to leave a lasting impression. Regardless of
the gravity of a matter before the court, citizens take their appearances as a defendant, witness or
juror very seriously and form judgments on the entire judicial system on the basis of their personal
experience. As such, it is essential that justice courts convey a sense of justice, dignity and concern
for the citizens who interact with them. The facilities which house the courts play an instrumental
role in forming these opinions and it is incumbent upon the judicial system to provide appropriately
appointed forums in both the largest urban courts and the smallest rural communities.

        The following space standards recommend courtroom designs that promote these goals.
The courtroom sizes and support staff space are intended to allow for the expeditious
administration of justice. They also allow for growth in judicial workloads and unforeseen changes
in practice and procedure. In general terms, there are great similarities between the higher courts
and justice courts in courtroom configuration and space dynamics. For example, the principles of
bench elevation sight lines, witness-jury-judge proximity, and spectator-well orientation are all
consistent between courts. Therefore, most of the design recommendations suggested for district
courts apply to justice courts. The following discussion emphasizes these similarities and notes
exceptions due to statutory and procedural differences as well as resource limitations.

- GENERAL COURTROOM DESIGN:

As stated above, justice court courtrooms should convey the same impressions of dignity, justice,
and authority as those serving a court of higher jurisdiction. The appearance of the courtroom
should reflect the fact that they are forums for justice. In applying design principles of the higher
court to justice courts, the absence of court reporters and full-time bailiffs should be noted.
Therefore, the following guidelines are presented in areas that are materially affected by the unique
nature of the justice courts.

       1.      Courtrooms should be at least 1,300 square feet in Class I jurisdictions, 1,100
               square feet in Class II jurisdictions and 800 square feet in Class III and Class IV
               jurisdictions. Walls and ceilings should have appropriate finishes and the well
               should be illuminated to prevent reading eye strain. The room should be sound
               insulated from outside noise. All courtrooms should be fully carpeted and adequate
               ventilation and temperature controls should be installed.

       2.      The judge’s bench should be elevated at least one riser (six inches) above the well
               floor level. As in the district court, judges’ benches should be elevated above the
               eye level of persons who approach the bench, usually three risers (18 inches). It is
               recognized however, those low ceiling heights in some justice courts do not allow
               for three-riser elevation. Benches elevated l8 inches or more in smaller courts can
               bring the judge too close to the ceiling when standing and puts the bench out of
               proportion to the room size. One riser should be the minimum standard and
               additional elevation is desirable as the dimensions of the room permit. Sufficient

                                                  13
     space should be provided on the bench for limited file and personal storage and the
     necessary audio/visual and technology systems to facilitate court proceedings. A
     concealed duress alarm should be located at the bench in case of emergencies. Other
     space design considerations may be considered and implemented as necessary to
     facilitate court proceedings.

3.   The witness box should be placed adjacent to the judge’s bench. All courtroom
     participants must have a clear line of sight to the witness box. The box should be
     large enough to accommodate two people and be enclosed on two to three sides,
     depending on the entry location. The height of the witness box should shield the
     witness only from the waist down so that all non-verbal gestures can be easily
     viewed.

4.   The jury box should be placed near the witness box and also have a clear line of
     sight to all participants. The standard jury box should accommodate five jurors.
     This will accommodate four jurors with an option for an alternate juror and space
     for a disabled juror. The jury box should consist of a single row of stationary swivel
     seats.

     The jurors themselves should be in view of the court as well as the spectators to
     ensure the perception of an open and public trial. However, the jury box should be
     sufficiently distanced from the spectator area to inhibit any physical or verbal
     contact. Seven feet from the center of the first juror’s chair to the bar is adequate.
     This leaves an additional two to three feet from the edge of the bar to the center of
     the nearest spectator’s seat.

     A “modesty rail” should be placed in front of the jurors with enough depth to rest
     documents and files.

     A clerk’s station should be provided by the judge’s bench opposite from the witness
     stand. This will accommodate different in-courtroom practices and procedures. It
     should also have storage and required technology systems and controls to facilitate
     court proceedings. The clerk’s station should be located to facilitate conversation
     between the clerk and the judge from the judge’s bench.

5.   Tables for the defense and prosecution should be provided to comfortably seat three
     persons each. The tables’ distance from each other, the spectators, and the jury
     should be such that private conversations cannot be overheard. This usually
     requires at least five feet between tables and eight feet from the nearest juror or
     spectator.

6.   Judge’s chambers should be at least 120-160 square feet with direct access to the
     judge’s bench and to the clerk’s area. Chambers should be equipped with adequate
     shelving for law texts, a desk and chair for the judge and visitor seating for small
     meetings or conferences.




                                      14
       7.      A jury room no smaller than 150 square feet should be integrated into each justice
               court. This space can serve as a conference room for attorneys and clients or as
               flexible space when not in use by a jury. A table and chairs should be provided and
               a telephone outlet should be installed for conference use. A toilet room should be
               conveniently available to the conference room and a drinking fountain should be in
               close proximity.

               The Clerk’s area should include a reception area for visitors and a counter to receive
               people with business before the court. The reception area should be no less than
               150 square feet and the counter space should comprise 60 square feet (e.g. a seven-
               foot counter with a depth of three feet and approximately three feet of open area on
               each side).

               A restroom for the public and a separate restroom for the judge, staff and jurors
               should be provided.

               Clerical staff should be afforded 75 square feet per person to accommodate a desk,
               chair, computer and other equipment and perimeter space. Staff space should be
               open landscape type. A small storage and print/copier area should also be provided.

- CLERICAL/SUPPORT SPACE:

The clerical and support space listed in the general court standards can also be applied to the justice
courts. Actual justice court staff will vary widely depending on location, workload and county
support.




                                                  15
                           COURT CERTIFICATION AFFIDAVIT


Justice Court:

Judge:

Address:



Telephone:

Court’s Website:

Level of Court (Circle one): I II III IV

Average Case Filings Per Month:

Daily Court Hours:

Number of Full-time Clerks:
     # Hours Worked Per Week Per Clerk:

Number of Part-time Clerks:
     # Hours Worked Per Week Per Clerk:

        This form is divided into two parts. Section I contains those requirements that are statutory
and cannot be waived. Section II contains minimum requirements established by the Judicial
Council, and those requirements may be waived pursuant to the procedure set forth in the
Instructions to Applicant included with this Application for Recertification.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

         Comes now Judge                                                                              ,

Justice Court Judge for                                                                           ,

and, except as specifically noted below, certifies as follows:




                                                 16
                                             SECTION I

     THE FOLLOWING ITEMS ARE STATUTORY AND CANNOT BE WAIVED.
CERTIFICATION WILL NOT BE GRANTED UNLESS EACH REQUIREMENT IS
MET.

Please indicate Yes or No to each of the following:

1.     All official court business is conducted in a public facility.

2.     Court is open daily.

3.     The hours of court operation are posted conspicuously.

4.     The judge and the clerk attend court at regularly scheduled times based on the level of the
       court.

5.     The judge is compensated at a fixed rate, within the statutory range.

6.     The responsible governmental entity provides and compensates sufficient clerical
       personnel necessary to conduct the business of the court.

7.     The responsible governmental entity assumes the expenses of the travel of the judge for
       purposes of required judicial education.

8.     The responsible governmental entity assumes the expenses of the travel of each clerk for
       the purposes of attending training sessions conducted by the Judicial Council.

9.     The responsible governmental entity provides the Court with:

       a. Sufficient prosecutorial support

       b. Funding for attorneys for indigent defendants, as appropriate

       c. Sufficient local law enforcement officers to attend court as provided by statute

       d. Security for the court as provided by statute

       e. Witness and juror fees

       f. Appropriate copies of the Utah Code, the Justice Court Manual, state laws affecting
       local governments, local ordinances and other necessary legal reference materials

10.    Fines, surcharges and assessments which are payable to the state are forwarded as required
       by law.




                                                 17
11.   Court is held within the jurisdiction of the court, except as provided by law (78A-7-212).


12.   All required reports and audits are filed as required by law or Rule of the Judicial Council.


13.   A record of all court proceedings is maintained by an appropriate digital recording system.




                                               18
                                          SECTION II

        Section II contains minimum requirements established by the Judicial Council, and
those requirements may be waived or an extension granted pursuant to the procedure set
forth in the Instructions to Applicant included with this Application for Recertification.

Please indicate YES or NO to each of the following:

1.     A clerk is available each day to conduct court business, including hearings as required by
       the judge, for the number of hours required for the classification of the court.

2.     Hours during which a clerk is available are posted on the court’s website.

3.     The judge is available to conduct court business as needed.

4.     The judge performs all duties required and exercises ultimate responsibility for the
       administration of justice as an independent branch of government.

5.     All court hearings are conducted in a designated courtroom, by remote transmission, or in
       another location authorized by the Presiding Judge.

3.     Minimum furnishings in the courtroom include:

       a.     Desk and chair for the judge

       b.     A six-inch riser

       c.     Desk and chair for the court clerk

       d.     Chairs for witnesses

       e.     Separate tables and appropriate chairs for plaintiffs and defendants

       f.     A new Utah State flag that will be on display no later than March 9, 2024

       g.     A United States flag

       h.     A separate area and chairs for at least four jurors

       i.     A separate area with appropriate seating for the public

       j.     An appropriate room for jury deliberations

       k.     An appropriate area or room for victims and witnesses which is separate from the
              public

       l.     A judicial robe

                                                19
      m.     A gavel

      p.     Necessary forms and supplies

      q.     Office space for the judge

      r.     Office space for the court clerk

      s.     Secure filing cabinets

      t.     Appropriate office supplies

      u.     A cash register or secured cash box for each clerk performing cashiering duties

      v.     At least one computer with word processing software and internet access

      w.     Access to a scanner and copy machine

4.    The court shall provide interpreters as required by Rule 3-306.04 of the Code of Judicial
      Administration.

5.    Does the applicant have a law enforcement department?

6.    If the applicant does not have a law enforcement department, identify the law enforcement
      agency which will provide law enforcement services for the applicant:



7.    A court security plan has been submitted for approval as required by Rule 3-414 of the
      Code of Judicial Administration.

8.    The court electronically reports to the Driver License Division, the Bureau of Criminal
      Identification and the Administrative Office of the Courts as required.

9.    Clerks’ education hours shall be reported to the Administrative Office of the Courts on an
      annual basis.

10.   The appointment of the clerk(s) assigned to serve the court are subject to the judge’s
      approval, who may participate in the interview and personnel evaluation process for the
      clerk(s) at his or her discretion.

11.   Court staff are current with all certification requirements required by the Board of Justice
      Court Judges from the month after starting with the court through September 30, 2023.




                                                20
12.   Any interlocal agreement relating to court operations shall be submitted to the
      Administrative Office of the Court with the city’s application for recertification.

13.   The court accepts credit and debit cards through a system that integrates with CORIS.


14.   The court has access to UCJIS.

15.   An audio recording system that complies with the description below maintains a digital
      recording of all court proceedings.

      For Class I and Class II justice courts, the system must:
         x Be a stand-alone unit that records and audibly plays back the recording;
         x Index, back-up and archive the recording and enable the record to be retrieved;
         x Have at least four recording channels;
         x Have a one-step “on” and “off” recording function;
         x Have conference monitoring of recorded audio;
         x Have external record archiving from the unit with local access; and
         x Be capable of being integrated with the court’s public address system.

      For Class III and Class IV justice courts, the system must, at a minimum:
         x Be a stand-alone unit that records and audibly plays back the recording;
         x Index, back up and archive the recording and enable the record to be retrieved; and
         x Have at least two recording channels.


16.   If the court is a Class I court:

      a.      Judge is employed on a full-time basis

      b.      Dedicated courtroom which meets the master plan guidelines adopted by the
              Judicial Council

      c.      Court has a jury deliberation room

      d.      Judge's chambers, clerk's office, and courtroom are in the same building

      e.      Judge has his or her own private chambers

      f.      Clerk's office is separate from any other entity

      g.      Court is open during normal business hours




                                               21
17.   If the court is a Class II court:

      a.      Court is open (check one)

                    201-300 average monthly filings: at least 4 hours/day
                    301-400 average monthly filings: at least 5 hours/day
                    401-500 average monthly filings: at least 6 hours/day

      b.      Trial calendar is set at least weekly

      c.      Courtroom configuration is permanent

      d.      Courtroom, judge’s chambers, and clerk’s office are within the same building

      e.      Judge has his or her own private chambers

18.   If the court is a Class III court:

      a.      Trial calendar is set at least twice per month

      b.      Court is opened (check one):

                    61-150 average monthly filings: at least 2 hours/day
                    151-200 average monthly filings: at least 3 hours/day

19.   If the court is a Class IV court:

      a.      Trial calendar is set at least monthly

      b.      Court is open at least 1 hour per day

20.   If you have responded with a "no" to any item in Section II above, you must request
      a waiver or extension below and justify that request. If waiver or extension of any
      requirement is requested, please specify each requirement and indicate factors which
      demonstrate a need for the waiver or extension. For any requested extension, please include
      the requested extension period. (To receive a waiver or extension of any requirement, the
      information requested in this section must be provided. Remember that statutory
      requirements cannot be waived or extended).




                                                22
       I am familiar with the minimum operational standards for this court, and except as noted
above, those standards are currently met or exceeded. During the current term of the court, I have
met with the appropriate governing body of the city to review the budget of the court, review
compliance with the minimum requirements and operational standards, and discuss other items of
common concern.


DATED this ______ day of __________________, 2023.



                                                      _____________________________
                                                      Justice Court Judge




I declare under criminal penalty of the State of Utah that the foregoing is true and correct.

Executed on this ______ day of __________________, 2023.




                                                 23
                                        CHECKLIST


Please be sure that your application for recertification includes each of the following:

1.      Court Certification Affidavit completed and signed by the judge.

2.      A copy of a written opinion from the city or county attorney (as appropriate), directed to
the appropriate sponsoring governmental entity, advising that entity of all requirements for the
operation of the justice court and the feasibility of maintaining the court.

3.      A copy of a duly passed resolution of the sponsoring governmental entity that

        a.     requests recertification of the court, and

        b.     affirms that the entity is willing to meet all requirements for the operation of the
               court during the period of certification.

4.      A copy of your court security plan, as required by Rule 3-414 of the Code of Judicial
        Administration.

5.      A copy of any interlocal agreement(s) relating to court operations, as amended to date.



     ALL OF THESE DOCUMENTS MUST BE RECEIVED BY THE ADMINISRATIVE
                       OFFICE OF THE COURTS BY:
                           DECEMBER 15, 2023.



                                 Board of Justice Court Judges
                                   Attention: James M. Peters
                               Administrative Office of the Courts
                                        P. O. Box 140241
                                Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-0241
                                      jamesp@utcourts.gov




                                                 24
                                   SAMPLE RESOLUTION




                A RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE RECERTIFICATION OF
                      THE __________________ JUSTICE COURT




         WHEREAS, the provisions of U.C.A. 78A-7-103 require that Justice Courts be recertified

at the end of each four-year term; and

         WHEREAS, the term of the present Court shall expire on the 31st day of January 2024;

and

         WHEREAS, the members of the __________________ City Council have received an

opinion letter from __________________, City Attorney, which sets forth the requirements for

the operation of a Justice Court and feasibility of continuing to maintain the same; and

         WHEREAS, the members of the __________________ City Council have determined that

it is to the best interests of __________________ Municipality to continue to provide for a Justice

Court.

         BE IT RESOLVED, the __________________ (name of Council or Board) hereby

requests recertification of the __________________ Justice Court by the Board of Justice Court

Judges and the Utah Judicial Council.




                                                25
       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the __________________ (name of Council or Board) of

Municipality hereby affirm their willingness to continue to meet all requirements set forth by the

Judicial Council for continued operation of the __________________ Justice Court for the next

four-year term of court, except as to any requirements waived by the Utah Judicial Council.




       APPROVED and signed this ______ day of __________________, 2023.



                                                    ___________________________

                                                    Municipality



                                                    by ___________________________

                                                    (Title)




ATTEST: ___________________________




                                               26
Business Item #2
                                      &ŝŶĂŶĐĞ Θ ĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ

                                      Completion and Receipt of
                                      Independent Audit FY2022-2023

                                      ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ tŚŽůĞ Θ ŝƚǇ ŽƵŶĐŝů
Council Action Request
                                      DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗November 14, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Acknowledging completion and receipt of the independent audit
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ             for fiscal year 2022-2023.
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  ŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶ ŝŶ ĐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǁŚŽůĞ ĂŶĚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ Ă
801-264-2513             ƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ ŝŶ ĐŽƵŶĐŝů ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ͘
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         ZĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ

                    Budget Impact



                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        A PDF of the completed audit will be sent as soon as it is
Presentation             finalized. Printed materials will be available the day of the
                         meeting.
45

Is This Time             The resolution is an acknowledgment that the audit is complete
                         and you have received it and telling the Recorder to publish
Sensitive                notice of that fact.
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
October 30, 2023
                                  RESOLUTION R23-__

       A RESOLUTION TO ACKNOWLEDGE COMPLETION AND RECEIPT OF
       THE INDEPENDENT AUDIT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022-2023 AND DIRECT
       THAT NOTICE BE PUBLISHED PURSUANT TO SECTION 10-6-152 OF
       THE UTAH CODE.

       WHEREAS, sections 10-6-151, 51-2a-201 and 51-2a-202 of the Utah Code require
the City to have, at least annually, an independent audit of its accounts by a certified
public accountant; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to section 10-6-152 of the Utah Code, within ten (10) days
following receipt of the independent audit, the City is required to publish notice advising
the public that the audit is complete and available for inspection; and

      WHEREAS, the City retained HBME, LLC, a certified public accountants, to do an
independent audit of the City’s accounts for fiscal year 2022-2023; and

        WHEREAS, HBME has completed the independent audit of the City’s accounts for
fiscal year 2022-2023; and

      WHEREAS, HBME has presented the independent audit to the Mayor and Murray
City Municipal Council; and

       WHEREAS, the Murray City Municipal Council wants to acknowledge receipt of
the completed audit and order that notice be published pursuant to section 10-6-152 of
the Utah Code.

       NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council as
follows:

        It hereby acknowledges that the independent audit of the City’s accounts for fiscal
year 2022-2023 has been completed by HBME and submitted to the Murray City
Municipal Council. As required by section 10-6-152 of the Utah Code, the City Recorder
is directed to publish notice, advising the public that the independent audit is complete
and available for inspection.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this            day of        2023.

                                          MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL




                                          Garry Hrechkosy, Chair
ATTEST:




Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Business Item #3
                                    ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŐĞŶĐǇ
                                    &ŝŶĂŶĐĞ Θ ĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ
                                    Consider resolution authorizing the
                                    issuance of Bonds for Public Works

                                    ŽƵŶĐŝů DĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗November 14, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Public Works Bond Parameters resolution
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  ŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŽŶĚ WĂƌĂŵĞƚĞƌƐ ZĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
801-264-2513
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         ƌĂĨƚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ

                    Budget Impact



                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        This resolution authorizes the City to enter into the appropriate
Presentation             Ground and building leases, necessary in order for the MBA to
                         issue bonds, within the parameters outlined below, to pay for
ϭϱ DŝŶƵƚĞƐ               the construction the Public works site.
Is This Time
                         The bond parameters summary:
Sensitive                  Principal Amount : $25,000,000
No                         Maturity in Years: 26 years
                           Sales Price: 98% (meaning you won't discount more than 2%)
Mayor’s Approval           Interest Rate: 6.5%
                           Designated Officer: Mayor and Finance Director

Date
October 31, 2023
ŽŶƚŝŶƵĞĚĨƌŽŵWĂŐĞϭ͗
The Mayor and Finance Director, would be authorized to execute the contracts, leases and
agreements necessary to Issue the City halls bonds at any level below the bond parameters listed
above.

The City is using Stifel Public Finance as financial advisors and Gilmore & Bell as bond counsel on
this debt issuance project.

This also includes a certification that the Utah opens records act was followed, and will be
followed for the Public hearing.
                 CERTIFICATE OF RESOLUTION OF MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                              (November 14, 2023 Meeting)

       The Municipal Council of Murray City, Utah (the “Council”) met in regular session
on Tuesday, November 14, 2023, at its regular meeting place in Murray City, Utah, at 6:30
p.m. with the following members of the Council present:

                    Garry Hrechkosy            Chair
                    Pam Cotter                 Council Member
                    Diane Turner               Council Member
                    Rosalba Dominguez          Council Member
                    David Rodgers              Council Member

       Also present:

                    Brett Hales                Mayor
                    G.L. Critchfield           City Attorney
                    Brooke Smith               City Recorder

       Absent:


        After the meeting had been duly called to order and after other matters not pertinent
to the resolution had been discussed, the City Recorder presented to the Council a
Certificate of Compliance with Open Meeting Law with respect to the November 14, 2023
meeting attached hereto as Exhibit A.

       Thereupon, Resolution No. ___________ was introduced in written form,
discussed in full, and pursuant to motion made by Councilmember _____________ and
seconded by Councilmember ________________, adopted by the following vote:

               AYE:



               NAY:

      The resolution was then signed by the Chair and recorded in the official records of
the Municipal Council of Murray City, Utah.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my signature this November
14, 2023.



                                        ____________________________________
                                                    City Recorder
(SEAL)




                                          2
4888-8536-7430, v. 2
                                         EXHIBIT A

             CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE WITH OPEN MEETING LAW

        I, Brooke Smith, the duly qualified and acting City Recorder of Murray City, Utah
(the “Issuer”), do hereby certify, according to the records of the Issuer in my official
possession, and upon my own knowledge and belief, that in accordance with the
requirements of Section 52-4-202, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, I gave not less
than twenty-four (24) hours public notice of the agenda, date, time, and place of the
November 14, 2023, public meeting held by the Issuer as follows:

                (a)     By causing a Notice, in the form attached hereto as Schedule 1, to
         be posted at the meeting location at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the
         convening of the meeting, said Notice having continuously remained so posted and
         available for public inspection until the completion of the meeting;

                  (b)    By causing a copy of such Notice, in the form attached hereto as
         Schedule 1, to be posted to the Utah Public Notice Website (http://pmn.utah.gov)
         at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the convening of the meeting; and

                (c)     By causing a Notice, in the form attached hereto as Schedule 1, to
         be posted on the City’s official website at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the
         convening of the meeting.

         In addition, the Notice of 2023 Annual Meeting Schedule for the City Council
(attached hereto as Schedule 2) was given specifying the date, time, and place of the regular
meetings of the City Council to be held during the year, by causing said Notice to be posted
at least annually (a) on the Utah Public Notice Website created under Section 63A-16-601,
Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, (b) on the City’s official website and (c) in a
public location within the City that is reasonably likely to be seen by residents of the City.

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my signature this November
14, 2023.


                                               ____________________________________
                                                           City Recorder

(SEAL)


ATTACHMENTS:
SCHEDULE 1—NOTICE OF MEETING
SCHEDULE 2—NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING




                                             A-1
4888-8536-7430, v. 2
                            RESOLUTION NO. ___________

       A RESOLUTION OF THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF MURRAY CITY,
       UTAH AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING THE EXECUTION AND
       DELIVERY OF A MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT AND A FIRST
       AMENDMENT TO MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT EACH BY AND
       BETWEEN THE CITY AND THE MUNICIPAL BUILDING
       AUTHORITY OF MURRAY CITY, UTAH (THE “AUTHORITY”), AND
       A GROUND LEASE AGREEMENT; AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE
       AND SALE BY THE AUTHORITY OF ITS LEASE REVENUE BONDS,
       SERIES 2024, IN AN AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT
       MORE THAN $25,000,000; AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING THE
       EXECUTION AND DELIVERY BY THE AUTHORITY OF A
       GENERAL INDENTURE OF TRUST, A SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL
       INDENTURE OF TRUST, A BOND PURCHASE CONTRACT,
       CERTAIN SECURITY DOCUMENTS, AND OTHER DOCUMENTS
       REQUIRED IN CONNECTION THEREWITH; AUTHORIZING AND
       APPROVING THE DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF A PRELIMINARY
       OFFICIAL STATEMENT AND AN OFFICIAL STATEMENT;
       AUTHORIZING THE TAKING OF ALL OTHER ACTIONS
       NECESSARY TO THE CONSUMMATION OF THE TRANSACTION
       CONTEMPLATED BY THIS RESOLUTION; AND RELATED
       MATTERS.

       WHEREAS, the Municipal Council (the “Council”) of Murray City, Utah (the
“City”) has previously authorized and directed the creation of the Municipal Building
Authority of Murray City, Utah (the “Authority”); and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to the direction of the City, the Authority has been duly and
regularly created, established and is organized and existing as a nonprofit corporation under
and by virtue of the provisions of the Constitution and laws of the State of Utah, including,
in particular, the provisions of the Local Building Authority Act, Title 17D, Chapter 2,
Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended (the “Building Authority Act”); and

        WHEREAS, under the Articles of Incorporation of the Authority (the “Articles”),
the objects and purposes for which the Authority has been founded and incorporated are to
construct, acquire, improve or extend one or more projects and to finance their costs on
behalf of the Authority in accordance with the procedures and subject to the limitations of
the Building Authority Act in order to accomplish the public purpose for which the
Authority exists; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Building Authority Act and the Local
Government Bonding Act, Title 11, Chapter 14, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended
(together, the “Act”), the Authority has authority to issue its lease revenue bonds for the
purpose of financing certain improvements for and on behalf of the Authority; and
        WHEREAS, under the direction of the City, the Governing Board of the Authority
(the “Governing Board”) has the authority to issue the Authority’s Lease Revenue Bonds,
Series 2024 (the “Series 2024 Bonds”) (to be issued in one or more series and with such
other series or title designation(s) as may be determined by the Authority) in an aggregate
principal amount of not to exceed $25,000,000 to (a) finance the acquisition, construction,
furnishing, and equipping of, and improvements to, public works buildings and related
public works site improvements (collectively, the “2024 Project”); (b) fund any required
deposits to a debt service reserve fund; and (c) pay costs associated with the issuance of
the Series 2024 Bonds; and

       WHEREAS, the Series 2024 Bonds are to be issued pursuant to a General Indenture
of Trust dated as of November 1, 2020 (the “General Indenture”), as previously
supplemented and as further supplemented by a Second Supplemental Indenture of Trust
(the “Second Supplemental Indenture” and together with the General Indenture, the
“Indenture”), each by and between the Authority and a trustee, substantially in the forms
presented to the Council at this meeting and are attached hereto as Exhibit B; and

        WHEREAS, it is anticipated that the City will be the owner of a fee simple interest
to the site on which the 2024 Project may be located and the City desires to lease such
property to the Authority pursuant to the terms and provisions of a Ground Lease
Agreement or any amendment thereto (a “Ground Lease”), in substantially the form
presented to the Council at this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit C and herein
authorized and approved; and

        WHEREAS, the 2024 Project is to be leased to the City, on an annually renewable
basis, by the Authority pursuant to the terms and provisions of a Master Lease Agreement
dated as of November 1, 2020 (the “Master Lease”), as amended and supplemented by a
First Amendment to Master Lease Agreement (the “First Amendment to Master Lease”
and together with the Master Lease, the “Lease”) each by and between the Authority and
the City, in substantially the form presented to the Council at this meeting and attached
hereto as Exhibit D; and

        WHEREAS, to further secure its payment obligations under the Indenture, the
Authority proposes to grant a lien on and security interest in the 2024 Project pursuant to:
(i) a Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement as
supplemented by a First Supplement to Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
Security Agreement, and (ii) an Assignment of Ground Lease, or any amendment thereto
in substantially the forms presented to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit E
(collectively the “Security Documents”); and

        WHEREAS, the Authority by its Resolution dated the date hereof (the “Authority
Resolution”) has or is expected to authorize, approve and direct (i) the execution of the
Indenture, a Ground Lease, the Lease and the Security Agreements; (ii) the issuance of the
Series 2024 Bonds; and (iii) the financing of the 2024 Project; and

      WHEREAS, there has been presented to the Council at this meeting a form of a
Bond Purchase Contract (the “Bond Purchase Contract”) to be entered into among the


                                             2
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
Authority, the City and an underwriter selected by the Authority for the Series 2024 Bonds
(the “Underwriter”), in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit F; and

        WHEREAS, in connection with the issuance of the Series 2024 Bonds, the City
desires to authorize the use and distribution of a Preliminary Official Statement (the
“Preliminary Official Statement”) in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit G,
and to approve a final Official Statement (the “Official Statement”) in substantially the
form as the Preliminary Official Statement, and other documents relating thereto; and

        WHEREAS, (i) the plans and specifications for the 2024 Project, including a
certificate of the engineer/architect responsible for planning the 2024 Project (which
certificate sets forth the estimated useful life of the 2024 Project) and (ii) the estimated
costs of the 2024 Project are set forth in Exhibit H hereto and are hereby submitted to the
Council for its approval; and

       WHEREAS, the Authority may not exercise any of its powers without prior
authorization by the City, and therefore it is necessary that the City authorize certain actions
by the Authority in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby in connection
with the issuance of the Series 2024 Bonds; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to improve and promote the local health and general
welfare of the citizens of the City by entering into the documents and taking the actions
described above; and

        WHEREAS, the City desires to (i) approve and direct the execution of the Ground
Lease, the Bond Purchase Contract, and the Lease by the City; (ii) authorize the issuance
of the Series 2024 Bonds and the financing of the 2024 Project by the Authority; (iii)
authorize the execution of the Ground Lease, the Lease, the Indenture, the Bond Purchase
Contract, the Security Documents and the Official Statement; (iv) authorize and approve
the distribution and use of the Preliminary Official Statement and the Official Statement;
(v) approve the plans and specifications for the 2024 Project and the estimated costs of the
2024 Project; and (vi) authorize certain other acts to be taken by the Authority in
connection therewith.

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF
MURRAY CITY, UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1.    All terms defined in the recitals hereto shall have the same meaning
when used herein. All actions heretofore taken (not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Resolution) by the City and by the officers of the Authority directed toward the issuance
of the Series 2024 Bonds and the financing of the 2024 Project are hereby ratified, approved
and confirmed.

        Section 2.     The City hereby finds and determines, pursuant to the Constitution
and laws of the State of Utah, that the leasing of the 2024 Project under the terms and
provisions and for the purposes set forth in the Lease and the other documents, instruments
and conveyances hereinafter approved and authorized, is necessary, convenient and in
furtherance of the governmental and proprietary purposes of the City and is in the best


                                               3
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
interest of the citizens of the City, and the City hereby authorizes, approves and directs the
issuance and sale of the Series 2024 Bonds by the Authority in accordance with the
provisions of the Indenture and the leasing of the 2024 Project in the manner provided in
the Lease and the Ground Lease.

        Section 3.     The Ground Lease, the Lease, the Indenture, the Security
Documents and the Bond Purchase Contract, in substantially the respective forms
presented to the Council at this meeting and attached hereto as exhibits, are in all respects
approved, authorized, and confirmed, and the Mayor or the Mayor pro tem, in the absence
of the Mayor, is authorized to approve the final terms thereof and to execute and deliver
the Ground Lease, the Lease and the Bond Purchase Contract in the forms and with
substantially the same content as attached hereto for and on behalf of the City with final
terms as may be established for the Series 2024 Bonds by the Authority and with such
alterations, changes or additions as may be necessary or as may be authorized herein.
When authorized by the Governing Board of the Authority, the City hereby approves and
authorizes the execution and delivery of the Bond Purchase Contract, the Lease, the
Indenture, the Security Documents and the Ground Lease, by the Authority in substantially
the forms presented to the Council at this meeting and attached hereto as exhibits for and
on behalf of the Authority.

         Section 4.     The Council hereby authorizes the financing of the 2024 Project and
the delegation by the Authority, to certain officers of the Authority, the ability to set the
final terms of the Series 2024 Bonds within the parameters established by the Authority in
the Authority Resolution, which parameters are as follows: maximum aggregate principal
amount shall not exceed $25,000,000; the maximum interest rate shall not exceed 6.50%
per annum; the maximum maturity shall not exceed twenty-six (26) years from the dated
date of the Series 2024 Bonds; and the maximum discount from par at which the Series
2024 Bonds may be sold shall not exceed 2%.

        Section 5.      Should the Authority determine to have the Series 2024 Bonds
underwritten, the Council hereby authorizes the distribution and use of the Preliminary
Official Statement, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit G, in the marketing of the Series
2024 Bonds and hereby approves the distribution and use of the Official Statement in
substantially the same form as the Preliminary Official Statement.

        Section 6.      For the purpose of providing funds to (a) finance the 2024 Project,
(b) fund any required deposits to a reserve fund, and (c) pay costs associated with the
issuance of the Series 2024 Bonds and for such other purposes as may be authorized under
the Indenture, the Authority shall issue the Series 2024 Bonds which shall be designated
the “Municipal Building Authority of Murray City, Utah Lease Revenue Bonds, Series
2024” (to be issued in one or more series and with such other series or title designation(s)
as may be determined by the Authority, provided that the terms of the Series 2024 Bonds
shall not exceed the parameters referenced in Section 4 herein). The Series 2024 Bonds
shall be dated, shall bear interest, and shall mature as set forth in the Second Supplemental
Indenture.




                                              4
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
        Section 7.     The Authority is authorized to issue and sell the Series 2024 Bonds
to the Underwriter thereof pursuant to the terms of the Bond Purchase Contract in the
aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $25,000,000 and at the purchase price set forth
therein. The Series 2024 Bonds shall be dated as of their date of delivery, shall bear
interest, and mature as set forth in the Second Supplemental Indenture.

       Section 8.      The form, terms, and provisions of the Series 2024 Bonds and the
provisions for the signatures, authentication, payment, registration, transfer, exchange,
redemption, and number shall be as set forth in the Indenture. The Series 2024 Bonds shall
mature prior to the expiration of the estimated useful life of the 2024 Project. The
Chair/President of the Authority, including any authorized official acting in the
Chair/President’s place, is hereby authorized to execute the Series 2024 Bonds, to place
thereon the seal of the Authority and to deliver the Series 2024 Bonds to the Underwriter.
The Secretary-Treasurer of the Authority is authorized to attest to the signature of the
Chair/President and affix the seal of the Authority to the Series 2024 Bonds and to
authenticate the Series 2024 Bonds. The signatures of the Chair/President and of the
Secretary-Treasurer may be by facsimile or manual execution.

        Section 9.    The appropriate officers of the City and the Authority are authorized
to take all actions necessary or reasonably required to carry out, give effect to and
consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and are authorized to take all actions
necessary in conformity with the Act and the Articles to finance the 2024 Project, and to
lease the 2024 Project pursuant to the Lease, including, without limitation, the execution
and delivery of any closing and other documents required to be delivered in connection
with the Indenture and the sale and delivery of the Series 2024 Bonds.
         Section 10. Upon their issuance, the Series 2024 Bonds will constitute special
limited obligations of the Authority payable solely from and to the extent of the sources set
forth in the Series 2024 Bonds, the Indenture and the Security Documents. No provision
of this Resolution, the Lease, the Ground Lease, the Indenture, the Series 2024 Bonds, the
Bond Purchase Contract, the Security Documents, the Official Statement, nor any other
instrument authorized hereby, shall be construed as creating a general obligation of the
Authority or of creating a general obligation of the City, the State of Utah or any political
subdivision of the State of Utah, nor as incurring or creating a charge upon the general
credit of the City or against its taxing powers. The City shall not be obligated to pay out
of its funds, revenues, or accounts, or to make any payment in respect of the Series 2024
Bonds, except in connection with the payment of Base Rentals, Additional Rentals, and
Purchase Option Price pursuant to the Lease (as those terms are defined in the Lease),
which are subject to annual appropriation by the City in accordance with the provisions of
the Lease. The Authority has no taxing power.

        Section 11. The Mayor or Mayor pro tem is hereby authorized to make any
alterations, changes or additions in the Lease, the Ground Lease, the Bond Purchase
Contract, and the Official Statement herein approved and authorized necessary to correct
errors or omissions therein, to remove ambiguities therefrom, or to conform the same to
other provisions of such instruments, to the provisions of this Resolution, or any resolution
adopted by the City or the Authority, to the agreements with the Underwriter or the


                                             5
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
provisions of the laws of the State of Utah or the United States, the approval of all such
alterations, changes, or additions to be conclusively established by the execution thereof.

        Section 12. The appropriate officials of the Authority are authorized to make
any alterations, changes, or additions in the Lease, the Ground Lease, the Indenture, the
Bond Purchase Contract, the Security Documents, and the Official Statement herein
authorized and approved which may be necessary to correct errors or omissions therein, to
remove ambiguities therefrom, to conform the same to other provisions of said instruments,
to the provisions of this Resolution, or any resolution adopted by the City or the Authority,
to the agreements with the Underwriter, or the provisions of the laws of the State of Utah
or the United States, approval of all such alterations, changes, or additions to be
conclusively established by the execution thereof.

        Section 13. If any provisions of this resolution (including the exhibits attached
hereto) should be held invalid, the invalidity of such provisions shall not affect any of the
other provisions of this resolution or the exhibits.
        Section 14. The City Recorder is hereby authorized to attest to all signatures and
acts of any proper official of the City, and, as necessary, to place the seal of the City on the
Lease, the Bond Purchase Contract, the Ground Lease and the Official Statement. The
Mayor and other proper officials of the City and each of them, are hereby authorized to
execute and deliver for and on behalf of the City any and all additional certificates,
documents, and other papers and to perform all other acts that they may deem necessary or
appropriate in order to implement and carry out the matters herein authorized. Any action
authorized to be taken by the Mayor of the City may, in his/her absence, be taken by the
Mayor pro tem.

        Section 15. The Secretary-Treasurer or other authorized officer of the Authority
is hereby authorized to attest to all signatures and acts of any proper official of the
Authority, and, as necessary, to place the seal of the Authority on the Lease, the Ground
Lease, the Indenture, the Security Documents, the Bond Purchase Contract, and any other
documents authorized, necessary or proper pursuant to this Resolution or any Resolution
of the Authority. The appropriate officials of the Authority, and each of them, are hereby
authorized to execute and deliver for and on behalf of the Authority any or all additional
certificates, documents, and other papers to perform all other acts they may deem necessary
or appropriate in order to implement and carry out the matters authorized in this resolution.
Any action authorized to be taken by the Chair/President may, in his/her absence, be taken
by the Vice-Chair of the Authority.

        Section 16. The appropriate officers of the City are authorized to take all action
necessary or reasonably required to carry out, give effect to and consummate the
transactions contemplated hereby.

       Section 17.     This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon adoption
by the City.

       Section 18. All bylaws, orders and resolutions of the City or parts thereof,
inconsistent herewith, are hereby repealed to the extent only of such inconsistency. This


                                               6
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
repealer shall not be construed as revising any bylaw, order, resolution, or ordinance or
part thereof.




                                           7
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
    PASSED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF MURRAY CITY, UTAH THIS
NOVEMBER 14, 2023.


(SEAL)

                                       By:
                                             Garry Hrechkosy, Chair


ATTEST:



By:
         Brooke Smith, City Recorder




                                       8
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
                               EXHIBIT A

                       CERTIFICATE OF RESOLUTION




                                  A-1
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
                       EXHIBIT B

                       INDENTURE




                          B-1
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
                              EXHIBIT C

                       GROUND LEASE AGREEMENT




                                 C-1
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
                               EXHIBIT D

                        MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT

             AND FIRST AMENDMENT TO MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT




                                  D-1
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
                            EXHIBIT E

                       SECURITY DOCUMENTS




                               E-1
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
                              EXHIBIT F

                       BOND PURCHASE CONTRACT




                                 F-1
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
                                 EXHIBIT G

                       PRELIMINARY OFFICIAL STATEMENT




                                    G-1
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
                               EXHIBIT H

                       CERTIFICATE OF USEFUL LIFE




                                  G-1
4894-8250-5606, v. 2
Business Item #4
                                   City Council

                                   2024 Council Meeting Schedule


                                   Committee of the Whole and Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗November 14, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Set the 2024 City Council Meeting Schedule.
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ<ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Approve resolution.
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Proposed resolution, proposed schedule and list of
Jennifer Kennedy         anticipated 2024 events.
                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation             Review and adopt the City Council meeting schedule for 2024.



Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
October 26, 2023
                              RESOLUTION NO. _____


      A RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE REGULAR MEETING SCHEDULE OF
      THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL FOR CALENDAR YEAR
      2024.

      BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council as follows:

      1.     The regular meeting schedule of the Murray City Municipal Council for
calendar year 2024 shall be as provided in the attached.

      2.     The Murray City Municipal Council reserves the right to change the
schedule or cancel any meetings it deems necessary consistent with the Utah Open
and Public Meetings Act.

      3.     The City Recorder is directed to publish the attached schedule.

      PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council of
Murray City, Utah, this day of November, 2023.


                                        MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                        _____________________________________
                                        Garry Hrechkosy, Chair

ATTEST:



_______________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
ATTACHMENT
               MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                  2024 MEETING SCHEDULE
                    Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South

                       COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                       COUNCIL MEETING 6:30 p.m.



Tuesday, January 2                           Tuesday, July 2
Tuesday, January 16                          Tuesday, July 16

Tuesday, February 6                          Tuesday, August 6
Tuesday, February 20                         Tuesday, August 13

Tuesday, March 5                             Tuesday, September 3
Tuesday, March 19                            Tuesday, September 17

Tuesday, April 2                             Tuesday, October 1
Tuesday, April 16                            Tuesday, October 15

Tuesday, May 7                               Tuesday, November 5
Tuesday, May 21                              Tuesday, November 19

Tuesday, June 4                              Tuesday, December 3
Tuesday, June 18                             Tuesday, December 10
                         2024 City Council Conferences & Events



Meetings

January 10, 2024       Murray City School Coordinating Council (Second Wednesday)
April 10, 2024         Murray City School Coordinating Council (Second Wednesday)
October 9, 2024        Murray City School Coordinating Council (Second Wednesday)


Conferences and Events
January 2024           ULCT Local Officials Day at the Legislature
February 25-29, 2024   APPA Legislative Rally
March 11-13, 2024      National League of Cities, Washington, DC
April 17-19, 2024      ULCT Mid-Year Conference (St. George)
May 19-21, 2024        ICSC (Las Vegas, NV)
June 6-11, 2024        APPA National Conference (New Orleans, LA)
August 20-22, 2024     UAMPS Conference (tentative)
September 4-5, 2024    ULCT Annual Convention (Salt Palace Convention Center)


Budget Process

January/February       Mid-Year Budget Review (Date TBD)
May 7, 2024            CM - Mayor’s Budget (Last date allowed by State Statute - can be earlier)
May 13-18, 2024        Budget Review with Departments & Reconciliation (Dependent upon receipt of
                       Mayor’s Budget.)
May 21, 2024           CM - Adopt Tentative Council Budget & Set Public Hearing
June 4, 2024           CM - Budget Public Hearing
June 18, 2024          CM - Adopt Final FY 2024-2024 Budgets (June 30 – last date allowed by State
                       Statute, unless Truth in Taxation Hearing for property tax increase)
August 2024            Truth in Taxation Meeting (if needed – Date TBD)


Miscellaneous
July 4, 2024           Murray Fun Day
December 2024          Council Holiday Party for Employees
December 2024          Intermountain Power Association annual meeting & luncheon
December 2024   UAMPS meeting and dinner
Adjournment
