Council Meeting
 May 2, 2023
                        Murray City Municipal Council
                             Notice of Meeting
                                         May 2, 2023
                                      Murray City Center
                          5025 South State Street, Murray, Utah 84107


Meeting Agenda

4:45 p.m.      Committee of the Whole – Conference Room #107
               Garry Hrechkosy conducting

Approval of Minutes – Committee of the Whole – April 4, 2023

Discussion Items:
    1. Library Department Report. Kim Fong presenting. (30 minutes)
    2. Discussion on potential Enterprise Fund Code changes. Phil Markham presenting. (15
       minutes)
    3. Discussion on rules and regulations for annexations. G.L. Critchfield presenting. (10
       minutes)
    4. Discussion on Council Member compensation. Diane Turner presenting. (15 minutes)
    5. Discussion on a resolution authorizing and ratifying the execution of an Interlocal
       Cooperation Agreement between the City and Salt Lake County to provide election
       services to assist the City in Conducting the City’s 2023 Municipal Election. G.L.
       Critchfield presenting. (5 minutes)
    6. Discussion on City Council Travel Policy updates. Garry Hrechkosy presenting. (20 minutes)

Adjournment

The public may view the Council Meeting via the live stream at www.murraycitylive.com or
https://www.facebook.com/Murraycityutah/. Those wishing to have their comments read into the record
may send an email by 5:00 p.m. the day prior to the meeting date to city.council@murray.utah.gov.
Comments are limited to less than three minutes (approximately 300 words for emails) and must include
your name and address.


6:30 p.m.      Council Meeting – Council Chambers
               Phil Markham conducting

Opening Ceremonies
   Call to Order
   Pledge of Allegiance

Approval of Minutes
   Council Meeting – April 4, 2023

Special Recognition
   None Scheduled.

Special Presentations
   None Scheduled.
Murray City Council Agenda
May 2, 2023                                                                                                                    2


Citizen Comments
    Comments will be limited to three minutes, step to the microphone, state your name and city
    of residence, and fill out the required form.

Consent Agenda
   None Scheduled.

Public Hearings
   None Scheduled.

Business Items
   1. Consider a resolution authorizing and ratifying the execution of an Interlocal Cooperation
       Agreement between the City and Salt Lake County to provide election services to assist
       the City in Conducting the City’s 2023 Municipal Election. G.L. Critchfield presenting.

Mayor’s Report and Questions

Adjournment
NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City Recorder
(801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the other
Council Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers will be able to hear all discussions.

On Friday, April 28, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Murray City Center, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City Recorder. A
copy of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing website at
http://pmn.utah.gov .




                                                                     Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                     Council Executive Director
                                                                     Murray City Municipal Council
Murray City Council Agenda
May 2, 2023                                                                                                                    2


Citizen Comments
    Comments will be limited to three minutes, step to the microphone, state your name and city
    of residence, and fill out the required form.

Consent Agenda
   None Scheduled.

Public Hearings
   None Scheduled.

Business Items
   1. Consider a resolution authorizing and ratifying the execution of an Interlocal Cooperation
       Agreement between the City and Salt Lake County to provide election services to assist
       the City in Conducting the City’s 2023 Municipal Election. G.L. Critchfield presenting.

Mayor’s Report and Questions

Adjournment
NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City Recorder
(801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the other
Council Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers will be able to hear all discussions.

On Friday, April 28, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Murray City Center, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City Recorder. A
copy of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing website at
http://pmn.utah.gov .




                                                                     Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                     Council Executive Director
                                                                     Murray City Municipal Council
 Committee
of the Whole
 Committee
of the Whole
   Minutes
                                     MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                      COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                                            Meeting Minutes
                                         Tuesday, April 4, 2023
           Murray City Center - 5025 South State Street, Conference Room, Murray, Utah 84107
Attendance:
  Council Members and others:
  Phil Markham – Vice Chair   District #1
  Diane Turner                District #4 - Excused
  Pam Cotter                  District #2
  Rosalba Dominguez           District #3
  Garry Hrechkosy – Chair     District #5

  Brett Hales      Mayor                               Jennifer Kennedy City Council Executive Director
  Doug Hill        Chief Administrative Officer        Pattie Johnson   Council Administration
  Tammy Kikuchi Chief Communications Officer           Brooke Smith     City Recorder
  G.L. Critchfield City Attorney                       Kim Sorensen     Parks and Recreation Director
  Russ Kakala      Public Works Director               Danny Hansen     IT
  Adam Hock        Resident                            Matt Youngs      Power Department
  Anthony Semore NeighborWorks

Conducting: Council Member Hrechkosy called the meeting to order at 4:30 pm.

Approval of Minutes: Committee of the Whole – March 7, 2023.
 Mr. Markham moved to approve, and Ms. Cotter seconded the motion.
 All in favor 4-0.

Discussion Items:
Courts Department Report:
  Ms. Gallegos compared traffic violation data, traffic court case totals and criminal case data between 2019
  and 2023. She discussed small claims to report that from May 4, 2022 through December 31, 2023, the
  highest amount for filing a small claim is $15,000. With new legislation, from January 1, 2025 to December
  31, 2029 the limit would increase to $20,000; and on January 1, 2030 the limit will go up to $25,000. A
  new audio system should be installed on April 17, 2023 and three new clerks were just hired. She
  described the new State program called Deferred Prosecution, that determines on-line whether citations
  are eligible for deferred prosecution or dismissed if no other citations are received within a year. She said
  justice court reform is underway with a new State task force. The task force would organize a global court
  system to oversee all justice courts. The program is three years out, involves House Bill 210 and is
  expected to be very costly once in place. To get all courts involved in justice court reform, another State
  program called Learning Management Systems was instituted which is a training program about court
  reform. All clerks are required to complete 10 hours of training per year before a court can be recertified.
  The Murray Court was recently recertified for another four years.

Donation to Granite School District for music education.
 Ms. Kennedy said that during the last budget year, $40,000 was allocated to MSD (Murray School District)
 for music education programs. At that time the Council also discussed whether GSD (Granite School
 District) would be interested in receiving money for music education as well. As a result, Mayor Hales and
 Mr. Hill reached out to GSD who requested a proposed amount totaling $36,000. Ms. Kennedy said
 because MSD only requested $21,577, there was a remaining amount of $18,422 that could be given to
 GSD. She asked Council Members what amount they would like to donate to GSD.
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of April 4, 2023                            DRAFT                                                Page 2




  Mr. Markham favored donating the remaining amount to GSD. Mr. Hrechkosy and Ms. Dominguez agreed.
  Ms. Cotter expressed concern about donation amounts to MSD and GSD being unequal. Mr. Markham
  noted the remaining amount of $18,422 was enough to meet the request for Woodstock Elementary. Ms.
  Cotter questioned how money would be spent among all Murray schools. Mr. Hrechkosy pointed out how
  the City completely funded the request of MSD. Ms. Kennedy asked Mr. Markham if he proposed funding
  only the request for Woodstock Elementary which was $16,500. Mr. Markham said yes, a donation this
  year would not include the amount requested for Cottonwood High School. He thought the City should
  evaluate how this donation was used before increasing the allocated budget. Ms. Kennedy said a spending
  report would be part of the contract.

  After further discussion, there was consensus to donate $15,000 to GSD for Woodstock Elementary. Ms.
  Cotter would continue to evaluate the matter. Mr. Hrechkosy stressed that the City donated to MSD for
  many years, and this was the first time the City would give a donation to GSD for schools located in Murray.

Non-profit donation application.
 Ms. Kennedy discussed how the Council previously analyzed cash donations and whether an application
 process was needed for future cash donations if the practice continued. Since that discussion she and Mr.
 Critchfield worked to create specific applications. Council members analyzed the sample documents that
 included a smaller application for non-monetary assistance and fee waivers like waiving golf cart fees for
 charity events; and a larger application for both non-profit and for-profit entities. Ms. Kennedy asked for
 direction.

  Mr. Markham wondered if the City received many requests from for-profit corporations. Mr. Hill said it
  was rare and the only way the City could give money like that was through the Redevelopment Agency.
  Mr. Markham did not favor for-profit agencies as a category for receiving cash donations. Ms. Cotter
  agreed. Mr. Critchfield explained the State statute regarding for-profit donations. He said it was originally
  intended for situations where a city would try to incentivize a retail business to stay in their city. He shared
  about a court case involving Orem City which resulted in State legislation establishing that a process must
  be followed if a city was going to give money to incentivize a business. He said in many states a city cannot
  give funds to a non-profit, however the Utah statute leaves that open to interpretation because it implies
  that anyone can ask for funding. The statute was not intended for just whoever, so this was why the City
  would have an application process for non-profit or for-profit businesses who request money, even
  though the application is not a guarantee that money would be granted.

  After further discussion there was consensus to move forward with the application process for all
  donation requests. Ms. Kennedy said the new application process requirement would be updated in the
  Council Rules.

Roberts Rules Training.
 Ms. Kennedy gave the training and noted that State law requires a city to pass a parliamentary procedure,
 so Roberts Rules was adopted as a set of rules for conducting orderly meetings. Ms. Kennedy said Roberts
 Rules indicates that where a majority rules the rights of everyone are protected. Training included all
 aspects of how council meetings should be conducted.

Future power rate study.
  Mr. Bellon joined the meeting via telecom. He said that since the last discussion about the power rate
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of April 4, 2023                          DRAFT                                             Page 3




  increase, there was concern that a 9% increase was not enough. As a result, he contacted consultant Dave
  Berg and they agreed to get a new rate study done quickly. The hope is to present study results to the
  Council in June 2023.

  Mr. Hrechkosy asked if the SCA (Supply Cost Adjustment) remained in place since there was not an
  immediate rate increase. Mr. Youngs said the SCA was in place through March. Mayor Hales asked if the
  City’s UAMPS (Utah Associated Municipal Power Systems) power bill for March would be another $1.5
  million. Mr. Bellon believed even though market prices had settled down, the SCA should run through the
  end of May. He said they would be okay financially and that reserves could be used if they need to get by
  until the proper rate increase was determined.

  Mr. Berg joined the meeting via telecom and explained two important aspects of the new rate study. First
  would be to provide a 5-year projection of the operating results, under the assumption that the existing
  rates do not change. The reason for doing this is to measure the need for revenue, related to wholesale
  power costs because that is what caused the most recent financial difficulty. Five-year projections would
  be a best guess for what wholesale power costs will be moving forward. He said if costs continue to rise
  as expected, this will give an indication of the ability to cover operating expenses, including wholesale
  power and capital improvement costs. This could lead to decisions about whether to cash flow capital
  improvements, or to bond for them. In a couple of months, the balance of reserves would be most telling.

  The second aspect is to conduct a COS (Cost-of-Service) study, which was done in 2016. The COS looks at
  different types of customers and estimates the cost to serve each type, or class of customer. By taking
  expenses and revenue requirements and dividing them up among the different classes of customers
  whether residential or industrial, the allocated cost to serve is compared with the amount of revenue
  received from customers. The COS would use expenses related to residential customers and determine
  what a cost-based customer charge might be.

  Mr. Berg said the analysis would tell whether certain classes of customers are subsidizing another class.
  Both aspects of the study would determine components of a rate design and composed rates for each
  type of customer. Mr. Berg said because of the changes in wholesale market pricing, another critical thing
  to realize is that the stable market we have had is going away. There might be periods of stability, but
  with all the recent changes in the industry, there are too many moving parts to expect wholesale power
  costs to stabilize. What happens with the market and wholesale power costs is outside of the City’s
  control, so a panic mode should be avoided in order to deal with elevated purchase-power expenses.

  Mr. Markham said looking forward at the rate schedule, as far in advance as possible and considering the
  volatility of future rates, was there a possibility that reserves would drop below an acceptable level. He
  felt only a certain percentage of revenue could be recouped. He asked if there would be a certain level of
  high cost that would trigger the City into identifying when or if another rate increase would follow this
  one.

  Mr. Berg said many utility companies have a policy in place for that, which prevents reserves from
  dropping to a certain low level, so setting a policy for a minimum balance in reserves would help. He
  suggested a functioning adjustment clause in the ordinance language so that utility bills would
  automatically adjust up or down depending on fluctuating wholesale power costs. This mechanism would
  change the revenue automatically on a continuous basis as needed. Mr. Hrechkosy asked if all tiers, and
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of April 4, 2023                          DRAFT                                              Page 4




  a new two-tiered rate for winter; and charging customers more for using excess energy would be included
  in the new rate study. Mr. Berg said yes.

  Mr. Hill clarified the policy details suggested by Mr. Berg. He explained once the rate study was
  completed, Council Members would need to decide whether or not to allow an adjustable rate for
  wholesale power. This meant the Council would allow customer utility bills to fluctuate up and down
  without any further Council approval. Adjustments would happen automatically according to what
  wholesale rate costs are at the time. He said the option would be built into the ordinance, so the Council
  should be sure this is what they want. Ms. Moore said utility bills would be adjusted on a quarterly basis.

  Mr. Critchfield said if the Council decided to approve the adjustable rate for wholesale power option, they
  would only be approving the administration’s authorization to adjust the power rate accordingly, and not
  how often the rate is adjusted. Mr. Hrechkosy said it was important to communicate with clear language
  to citizens the reason for the ordinance, and why utility bills would be fluctuating.

Adjournment: 5:47 p.m.
                                                               Pattie Johnson
                                                               Council Office Administrator III
Discussion
   Items
Discussion
 Item #1
                                   DƵƌƌĂǇ ŝƚǇ ŽƵŶĐŝů

                                   Report from the Library


                                   Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗May 2, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Monthly Department Report
Jennifer Kennedy
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Information only.
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
Kim Fong

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation              The Library will provide an update on their department.

30 Minutes

Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
April 17, 2023
Discussion
 Item #2
                                     City Council

                                     Enterprise Fund Changes


                                     Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                     DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗May 2, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Discuss potential changes to enterprise funds
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ <ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Information and discussion
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
Phil Markham

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
                         Regarding Enterprise Fund policy and direction. I would like to discuss
Presentation
                         if the City Council would like to modify the code to include items such
15 Minutes               as:
                         1. A rate study must be completed for enterprise funds every 5 years.
Is This Time
                         2. A rate change cannot be approved without a completed rate study.
Sensitive                3. Enterprise Fund reserves must cover a minimum of 6 months
Yes                      operating costs, based on the previous year expenses (minus capitol
                         projects), however, it shall not exceed 12 months of operating
Mayor’s Approval         expenses.
                         4. Enterprise Funds must have a Master Plan in place and the Master
                         Plan must be updated every 5 years.

Date
April 5, 2023
Discussion
 Item #3
                                     Attorney

                                    Annexation


                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                     DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗May 2, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 To review the annexation rules and regulations
G.L. Critchfield
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  None
801-264-2654
                    Attachments
Presenters
G.L. Critchfield

                    Budget Impact



                    Description of this /tem
                         G.L. will be conducting a brief overview for the City Council on
Required Time for
                         the rules and procedures for annexation.
Presentation
ϭϬ DŝŶƵƚĞƐ               Annexation is the process by which a municipality expands its
Is This Time             boundaries to include adjacent territory. This can have
Sensitive                significant implications for the city and its residents, as it can
                         impact the delivery of services, taxation, and representation.
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
April 13, 2023
ŽŶƚŝŶƵĞĚĨƌŽŵWĂŐĞϭ͗
G.L. will provide an overview of the legal framework for annexation, including the state laws and
regulations that govern the process. In addition, G.L will provide guidance on the steps that the
City Council must follow to initiate and complete an annexation, as well as the various factors that
they should consider when evaluating whether annexation is appropriate.

By the end of the overview, the City Council will have a better understanding of the annexation
process and the legal requirements that must be met to ensure all rules and regulations of
annexation are followed.
Discussion
 Item #4
                                   City Council

                                   Compensation of City Council
                                   Members

                                   Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗May 2, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Consider raising Council Member Compensation to $20,000.00.
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ <ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Approve Ordinance
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Memo, proposed ordinance
Diane Turner

                    Budget Impact
                         $14,605 Annually


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation             Consider an ordinance amending section 2.06.040 of the Murray
                         City Municipal Code Relating to the Compensation of
15 Minutes               Council Members.
Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
April 17, 2023
                                                                Phil Markham, District 1          Diane Turner, District 4
          MURRAY CITY CORPORATION                               Pam Cotter, District 2            Garry Hrechkosy, District 5
          CITY COUNCIL
                                                                Rosalba Dominguez, District 3     Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                                                  Council Executive Director


                                                MEMORANDUM

TO:                Murray City Municipal Council

FROM:              Diane Turner, Council District #4

DATE:              April 18, 2023

RE:                Municipal Council Compensation

This item is a follow-up from the council initiative workshop we held on February 15, 2023. During
that workshop, a discussion took place on whether to increase the compensation of the council.

Currently, the salary of a Murray City councilmember is $17,079 per year. I would like to propose
raising the council’s salary to $20,000 per year. In addition, I would like to propose that we receive
a technology allowance of $1,000 per term (every four years). The technology allowance would
be in lieu of the city providing council members with iPads. Rather, council members could use
their technology allowance to purchase the device of their choice to use for their council
business.




      Murray City Center       5025 S State Street, Suite 112      Murray, Utah 84107           801-264-2622
                               ORDINANCE NO._______


      AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.06.040 OF THE MURRAY
      CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO THE COMPENSATION OF
      CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS.

      BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

      Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this Ordinance is to amend section
2.06.040 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to compensation of City Council
members.

      Section 2. Amendment of section 2.06.040 of the Murray City Municipal Code.
Section 2.06.040 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to compensation of City
Council members shall be amended to read as follows:

2.06.040: COMPENSATION OF CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS:

The compensation of the City Council Members shall be fourteen twenty thousand six
hundred thirty-eight dollars ($1420,638000.00) per year, a technology allowance of
$1000.00 per term and any cost of living increase approved by the City Council for full
time City employees.


       Section 3.   Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first
publication.

       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this ______ day of _______________, 2023.

                                         MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL


                                         _____________________________________
                                         Garry Hrechkosy, Chair

ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

     Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this ____ day of
________________, 2023.
MAYOR’S ACTION:

DATED this ____ day of __________, 2023.



                                        _____________________________________
                                        Brett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:



__________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder



                          CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

I hereby certify that this Ordinance, or a summary hereof, was published according to
law on the ___ day of _________, 2023.




Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Discussion
 Item #5
                                    City Attorney/City
                                    Recorder
                                    Interlocal Agreement for 2023
                                    Elections (with Salt Lake County)

                                    Committee of the Whole and Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                     DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗May 2, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 To discuss the lnterlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County for
G.L. Critchfield         Municipal Elections 2023.

                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Approval of Resolution
801-264-2640
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Proposed Resolution and Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
G.L. Critchfield

                    Budget Impact
                         $40,000



                    Description of this /tem
                         The Recorders Office is requesting approval of a contract with
Required Time for
                         Salt Lake County Election's Division to assist in conducting the
Presentation
                         City's 2023 primary and general municipal elections.
ϭϬ DŝŶƵƚĞƐ

Is This Time             The City has contracted with the County for several years. They
Sensitive                have all the equipment needed and will take care of hiring
                         election workers, setting up polling location, ballot printing, etc.
No
                         I am recommending the city continue to allow the county to
Mayor’s Approval         conduct our 2023 municipal elections.



Date
April 18, 2023
                                RESOLUTION NO. R 23-


        A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING AND RATIFYING THE EXECUTION OF
        AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY
        AND SALT LAKE COUNTY TO PROVIDE ELECTION SERVICES TO
        ASSIST THE CITY IN CONDUCTING THE CITY’S 2023 MUNICIPAL
        ELECTION.


      WHEREAS, Title 11, Chapter 13, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended,
permits public agencies to enter into cooperative agreements to provide joint
undertakings and services; and

        WHEREAS, the City wants Salt Lake County (“County”) to provide the services of
its clerk’s office, elections division, to assist the City in conducting the City’s 2023
municipal election; and

        WHEREAS, an Agreement has been prepared to accomplish such purpose.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Municipal Council of Murray City,
Utah:

        1. It hereby approves and ratifies the Agreement dated February 14, 2023
between the City and the County for the County to provide the services of its clerk’s
office, elections division, to assist the City in conducting the City’s 2023 Municipal
Election.

      2. The Agreement is in the interest of rendering the best service with the least
possible expenditure of public funds.

        3. Mayor Brett A. Hales’ execution of the Agreement is hereby authorized and
ratified on behalf of the City.

      4. Mayor Brett A. Hales, is hereby authorized to act in accordance with the
terms of the Agreement.

        DATED this     day of April, 2023.

                                             MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                             _____________________________________
                                             Garry Hrechkosy, Chair
ATTEST:


_________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Discussion
 Item #6
                                    City Council

                                    City Council Travel Policy Updates


                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗May 2, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Updates to the City Council Travel Policy
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ <ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Adopt proposed changes
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Current policy with proposed updates. Cost list of all
Garry Hrechkosy          pre-approved conferences.
                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation             Council Member Hrechkosy is proposing the following changes to
                         the travel policy for the City Council:
20 Minutes

Is This Time             Each council member will have an allocated travel budget of
                         $7,500 per fiscal year.
Sensitive
Yes                      The list of pre-approved conferences has been updated.
Mayor’s Approval



Date
April 18, 2023
                               Murray City Council Travel Policy



The Murray City Municipal Council adopts, subject to the provisions below, the Murray City travel policy
put into effect by Executive Order 19-01 of July 7, 2019, a copy of which is attached.

Council Specific Provisions and Amendments

    1. Future Amendments. In the event of any future amendment by the City administration to
       Executive Order 19-01, the Council shall automatically adopt such amendments unless within 60
       days of the amendment, the Council reviews and affirmatively declines to adopt such
       amendment or to adopt the amendment with modifications.

    2. Council travel plans shall be determined and approved during the annual budget process.

        a. During the budget process each year, council members will be allocated up to $7,500 per
           council member to use towards travel and may attend any pre-approved conference(s) they
           would like until their allocated money is gone.

        b. The Council Director will keep track of each council members travel budget and update
           council members regularly.

        c. A council member must have enough allocated funds to completely cover all conference
           expenses (hotel, air, per diem, car rental, ground transportation, etc.) in order to attend a
           conference.

        d. A council member will repay the city any amount that is spent over their allocated funds.

        c.e. Travel that was not anticipated during the budget process should be presented to the
             Council for approval on a case-by-case basis to determine intent and benefit in order for
             expenditures to be covered by the City Council budget.

    3. The following conferences have traditionally been pre-approved for attendance by Council
       Members:

            •   Utah League of Cities and Towns, Annual and Mid-Year Conferences (All Council
                Members and Council Executive Director)
            •   Utah League of Cities and Towns Mid-Year Conference
            •   National League of Cities: Congressional City Conference or
            •   National League of Cities City Summit. (All Council Members and Council Executive
                Director; one conference per fiscal year)
            •   American Public Power Association: Legislative Rally or
            •   American Public Power Association National Conference (All Council Members; one
                conference per fiscal year. Three Council Members from the Council Budget; Two
                Council Members from Power Department budget.)
           •   UAMPS conference in August. (All Council Members; paid from the Power Department
               Budget.)
           •   Utah Land Use Institute Annual Land Use Conference
           •   ULCT Elected Officials Essentials
           •   ULCT Local Officials Day
           •   American Planning Association
           •   ICSC Las Vegas
           •

   4. Council Members may be invited to participate in travel related to City matters sponsored by
      another City Department. Travel sponsored by another Department is subject to that
      Department’s travel budget and may be rotated between Council Members.

   5.4. Only one City Council Member may be approved for City related business travel during the time
        of a scheduled City Council meeting.

   5. Upon return, Council Members will work with the Council Director to schedule time in a
      Committee of the Whole meeting to provide a follow-up report to the full Council.

   6. Council Members whose terms are terminating and have determined not to run for another
      term of office, shall not use Murray City funding to travel during the last six months of office,
      and those who have been defeated during elections and are leaving office in January shall not
      use Murray City funding to attend conferences unless serving as the official City representative
      on a board, committee, or other official body.

   7. Council Members are encouraged to attend training and educational seminars prior to taking
      office.

   8. Council staff will coordinate with Council Members to make travel arrangements. If a Council
      Member would like to stay extra nights before or after a conference, they will be responsible to
      make their own hotel reservations. Extra hotel nights may not be reserved or paid for with a
      City issued credit card.

   9. Family expenses, including tours, movies, mini-bar and other social events, will be the
      responsibility of each Council Member according to their usage. Council Members are
      responsible for turning in their receipts for reimbursement on all other covered expenses within
      ten (10) days of returning. These expenses include the following for each Council Member:
          a. Airline tickets and baggage expense
          b. Lodging expense
          c. Ground transportation (taxi, public transportation or rental car) to and from the Salt
              Lake City airport, from the destination airport to the lodging and back to the airport, and
              from the lodging to a council or conference sponsored event and back to the lodging.
          d. City related phone calls
          e. Parking expense at the airport or other long-term facilities

Revised and Approved: July 5, 2022
                            EXECUTIVE ORDER            /[(}11-d/
                                      City-Wide Travel Policy


CONFLICT AND REPEAL

       This Executive Order supersedes, rescinds and replaces Executive Order #15-03 , dated
July 16, 2015; #12-01 dated April 2, 2012; and #2, dated January 14, 1982, each of which shall
be of no further force nor effect. Any and all other Executive Orders relating to City travel are
hereby rescinded and superseded by this Order.


PURPOSE

        The purpose of this order is to adopt a City-wide travel policy in order to ensure
consistent application of cost reimbursement and other matters related to employee travel for
City business.


IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY

          The attached City-Wide Travel Policy is hereby approved and adopted.


EFFECTIVE DATE

          This Travel Policy shall be effective June 7, 2019


Dated this 61h day of June, 2019.




Attest:




Approved as to form:




  .L. Critchfield, City Attorney
                                   Murray City Travel Policy
All overnight travel, whether in-state or out-of-state, is governed· by this policy. When traveling for work-
related meetings, conferences, and training programs, the city will pay reasonable amounts for expenses.
Every effort should be made to make cost effective choices for lodging, transportation, and other related
expenses. All travel is subject to review and audit. When requesting funds for travel, the employee agrees to
only use the money as intended according to this policy.


1.0     Definitions
        1.1     "Travel" means any work-related, overnight trip for the city.
        1.2     "Emp loyee" means all city personnel, city council and staff, boards and commission members,
                or others who travel using executive branch funds as approved by the department head and
                Mayor.
        1.3     "Per Diem" means the amount provided to an employee who is traveling to cover the costs of
                meals and incidental expenses without the necessity of supporting receipts. "Incidental
                expenses" include fees and tips for porters, baggage handlers, room service t ips, and other
                similar services. "I ncidental expenses" does not include ground transportation, fuel (if
                traveling in a city vehicle}, airport parking, baggage fees, or rental cars.
        1.4     "Ground Transportation" means the cost of transporting the employee to and from the Salt
                Lake City airport (if approved by the department head}, from the destination airport to the
                lodging and back to the airport, and from one place of business to another place of business.
2.0     General Provisions
        2.1     A Travel Authorization Form must be completed and approved prior to traveling. Travel
                Authorization Forms will be approved by the department head as to the availability of funds
                prior to being submitted to the Mayor. It is the responsibility of each department head to
                ensure that all forms and documentation submitted by their employees are in proper order.
        2.2     When possible, employees should pay for travel-related expenses using a city credit card. If
                not possible, a receipt of payment must be submitted for reimbursement.
        2.3     Employees may travel with guests. However, the city will only reimburse employee expenses.
                Guest expenses should not be charged on city credit cards.
        2.4     Non-exempt employees will be compensated for travel time as required by the Fair Labor
                Standards Act (FLSA}.

        2.5     Upon completion of approved travel, a Travel Reconciliation Form, along with receipts, must
                be subm itted to the department head within ten business days for final review and
                authorization of any payment due.
        2.6     Violations of this policy or making false statements on any travel forms will constitute grounds
                for disciplinary action.
3.0     Event Registration

        3.1     Registration fees for conferences and seminars will be paid by the city.
        3.2     Fees for optional social events or non-business-related activities will not be paid by the city.
                                     Murray City Travel Policy
4.0   Transportation
      4.1       Considering travel time, the least costly mode of transportation to the destination should be
                used for travel. This includes airlines, city vehicle, rental car, or mileage for personal vehicle . If
                an employee chooses another mode of transportation other than the least costly mode, the
                city will pay for the least costly method.
      4.2       When possible, employees are encouraged to use city-owned vehicles for travel.
      4.3       Employees requesting to use a personal vehicle will calculate mileage advances as stated by
                the IRS POV mileage allowance rate. (www.gsa.gov)
                4.3.1    Use of a personal vehicle requires verification of liability, personal injury and property
                         damage insurance coverage when submitting the Travel Authorization Form . If an
                         accident occurs while using a personal vehicle, all costs re lated to the accident, except
                         those covered by workers compensation, will be paid solely through the personal
                         insurance.
                4.3 .2   If more than one employee rides in the same vehicle, on ly the owner of the vehicle will
                         be reimbursed for mileage.
      4.4       A rental car may be used when work-related travel is required or is less expensive (including
                the cost of parking) than other transportation modes. The city will not pay for rental cars that
                are used for non-work-related travel.
                4.4.1    When renting a car for work-related use, a liability insurance supplement and loss
                         damage waiver must be purchased.
       4.5      The city will pay the lowest price, with fewest stops (including baggage fees), domestic coach
                class airfare when making airline reservations. Airline ticket purchases should be booked as far
                in advance as possible to get the best price. Reservations inside of 21-days require
                department head approval. Frequent flyer memberships should not influence airline ticket
                purchases.
       4.6      The city will pay for ground transportation, including ground transportation tips up to 20%, and
                airport parking.
5.0   Lodging
       5.1      The city will pay conference rates for single occupancy lodging plus tax. Upgrades, room
                service, and entertainment fees will not be paid by the city.
6.0   Per Diem
       6.1      The city will advance funds for Per Diem as stated by the IRS destination city per diem rate
                schedule. (www.gsa.gov)
       6.2      The first and last day of travel will be paid at 75% per diem.
       6.3      In lieu of per diem, an employee may pay for meals and incidental expenses and request
                reimbursement up to the per diem limit. A receipt documenting the expense is required.
                                                                                FY2023 - 2024 Travel and Learning
                                                                                         (10-0101-42125)

                                     Registration Fee    Hotel      Per Diem   Mileage       Airfare         Miic     Total per Person   Mutiply by 5 or 6   Total for Council                     Notes
                                                                                                                                                                                 (1) Historically this conference has
                                                                                                                                                                                 been paid for by the Power
UAMPS Conference - Jackson Hole                                                                                                                                                  Department and is not included in
Wyoming - August 2023                      $0.00        $804.36     $266.00    $343.36        $0.00          $0.00       $1,413.72              5               $7,068.60        the council's travel budget.

ULCT Salt Lake City - October 2023        $510.00        $0.00       $0.00      $0.00         $0.00          $0.00        $510.00               6               $3,060.00        (2)

Utah Land Use Institute Land Use
Training - October 2024                   $335.00        $0.00       $0.00      $0.00         $0.00          $0.00        $335.00               5               $1,675.00

                                                                                                                                                                                 This is an estimate since no one from
NLC City Summit-November 2023                                                                                                                                                    the council has ever attended this
Atlanta, GA                               $700.00       $1,000.00   $250.00                  $500.00                     $2,450.00              5              $12,250.00        conference

                                                                                                                                                                                 This training is geared towards newly
ULCT Elected Officials Essentials          $60.00                                                                         $60.00                5                $300.00         elected officials

ULCT Local Officials Day
January 2024                              $100.00        $0.00       $0.00      $0.00         $0.00          $0.00        $100.00               6                $600.00         (3)


                                                                                                                                                                                 (4) Misc is $100 for ground
                                                                                                                                                                                 transportation and $50 for airport
                                                                                                                                                                                 parking. Airfare is an average of what
APPA Legislative Rally                                                                                                                                                           was paid per councilmember to
February 2024                             $750.00       $1,500.00   $276.50     $0.00       $1,670.00       $150.00      $4,346.50              5              $21,732.50        attend this conference in 2023

                                                                                                                                                                                 (5) Airfare is an average of what was
NLC Congressional City Conference                                                                                                                                                paid per councilmember to attend
Washtington DC - March 2024               $750.00       $1,005.00   $276.50     $0.00        $690.00         $0.00       $2,721.50              5              $13,607.50        the conference in 2023

                                                                                                                                                                                 This is a conference council members
                                                                                                                                                                                 may be interested in attending. The
                                                                                                                                                                                 cost is an estimate since no one from
American Planning Association -                                                                                                                                                  the council has ever attended this
April 2024                                                                                                               $5,000.00              5              $25,000.00        conference

ULCT Mid-Year Conference
St. Geroge - April 2024                   $355.00       $404.00     $177.00    $327.00        $0.00          $0.00       $1,263.00              6               $7,578.00

                                                                                                                                                                                 (6)
ICSC Las Vegas - May 2024                 $975.00       $377.50     $241.50     $0.00        $247.20        $60.00       $1,901.20              3               $5,703.60        $60 Misc Fee was for baggage

                                                                                                                                                                                 Airfare is an estimate.
                                                                                                                                                                                 Misc is $150 for ground
                                                                                                                                                                                 transportation and $150 for airport
APPA Conference - June 2024              $1,325.00      $1,600.00   $513.50     $0.00       $1,000.00       $300.00      $4,738.50              5              $23,692.50        parking
                                                                                                          FY2023 - 2024 Travel and Learning
                                                                                                                        (10-0101-42125)

                                        Registration Fee          Hotel             Per Diem             Mileage             Airfare               Miic          Total per Person   Mutiply by 5 or 6    Total for Council                  Notes
Various Workshops                                                                                                                                                                                            $280.00

Training Class for Pattie                                                                                                                                                                                    $250.00


           Travel and Learning Total:                                                                                                                                  $24,839.42                          $122,797.70



Notes
(1) UAMPS Conference August 2023 – This conference has been historically paid for by the Power Department. Last time the council went was in 2019. According to the paperwork I found, the cost for each council member to attend this conference was
$1,414 each (air, hotel, per diem). There was no registration fee noted on any of the travel request forms for this conference. With a 10% inflation rate, if the council wanted to add this conference to their budget, I would estimate it to be $1,555 each
(times 5 = $7,775 total). 4/12/2023 - Spoke with Michelle in the Power Department. She said there is no registration fee for the UAMPS Conference.


(2) ULCT October 2023 – This is a local conference that all councilmembers and the council director attend. The cost last year was $485 per person. I added a 5% price increase for 2023 and rounded up to $510 per person (times 6 = $3,060)


(3) ULCT Local Officials Day January 2024 – Same as last year, budgeted $100 for all councilmembers and the council director to attend.


(4) APPA Legislative Rally February 2024 – Historically the Power Department has invited, and paid for, two councilmembers to attend this conference, however, there have been recent discussions on whether all councilmembers should have the option to
attend this conference. In FY 2022, two councilmembers attended this conference and it was paid for by the power department. The cost for the registration fee, ledging, per diem, airport parking and ground transportation for each councilmember was
$2,7676.50. Airfare ranged from $1,300 to 2,038 (average of $1,670). I added the conference cost to the average of the airfare to budget for next year. I budgeted $4,346.50 for each councilmember to attend this conference in FY 2023.


(5) NLC Washington DC March 2024 – In FY 2022 the cost for the conference, hotel and per diem was $2,031.50. The average cost of airfare was $690. Total per councilmember to attend the conference is $2,721.50; not including any pre-conference
sessions which generally cost around $185 per session.

(6) Councilmembers are invited by the Mayor and the conference is paid for by RDA
Adjournment
Council Meeting
  6:30 p.m.
     Call to Order
  Pledge of Allegiance
Council Meeting
   Minutes
OPENING CEREMONIES
 DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT

 Council in Attendance

 Philip Markham, District #1 (Conducting)
 Pamela Cotter, District #2
 Rosalba Dominguez, District #3
 Diane Turner, District #4 (Excused)
 Garry Hrechkosy, District #5 (Excused)
 Jennifer Kennedy, Council Director
 Pattie Johnson, Council Office Administrator III
 Crystal Brown, Officer Administrator

 Administrative Staff in Attendance

 Brett A. Hales, Mayor
 Doug Hill, Chief Administrative Office
 Tammy Kikuchi, Chief Communication Officer
 G.L. Critchfield, City Attorney
 Brooke Smith, City Recorder
 Brenda Moore, Finance and Administration Director
 Craig Burnett, Police Chief
 Joey Mittelman, Fire Chief
 Bruce Turner, Power Operations Manager
 Matt Youngs, Energy Services Compliance Manager
 Russ Kakala, Public Works Director
 Ben Ford, Wastewater Superintendent
 Danny Hansen, IT Systems Administrator

 Others in Attendance

 Anthony Semone, Adam Hock, Clark Bullen, Doug Payne, Judith Payne, Lawrence Horman, Drue Kehl, and
 Darin Bird.

 CALL TO ORDER

 Councilmember Markham called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
 Councilmember Turner and Councilmember Hrechkosy were excused.
 The audience was invited to recite the Pledge of Allegiance led by Darin Bird.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
None scheduled.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
 1. Consider a Joint Resolution of the Mayor and Municipal Council of Murray City, Utah Declaring
    Friday, May 5, 20223 as Murray Arbor Day., Mayor Hales and Council Chair Hrechkosy presenting

       PRESENTATION

       Mayor Hales invited board members of the Shade Tree and Beautification Committee to the
       podium and then read into the record the Joint Resolution declaring Friday, May 5, 2023, as
       Murray Arbor Day.

       During the meeting, it was discussed that Arbor Day is a national and international observance
       that celebrates the significance of trees, as they provide a source of joy and spiritual renewal.
       The value of a tree cannot be measured, as its worth is subjective and varies depending on the
       individual's emotional and spiritual connection to it.

       It was highlighted that trees offer many benefits, including reducing soil erosion, moderating
       temperature, cleaning the air, producing oxygen, and providing habitats for wildlife. Trees also
       provide enjoyment, shade, cover, and safety for people and other living creatures.

       The council affirmed its commitment to managing the confined spaces along streets and near
       buildings to ensure peaceful coexistence between trees, utilities, buildings, and people. The
       Shade Tree and Beautification Commission, which promotes the planting and care of trees and
       vegetation, plays a significant role in enhancing the city's beauty and value, making it a more
       desirable place to work, play, and live.

       As a Tree City USA for 46 years, Murray City is reminded of the slogan, "Murray is a City
       Without Equal." The Mayor and Municipal Council of Murray City, Utah, jointly resolved to
       declare May 5, 2023, as Murray Arbor Day, acknowledging the importance of trees and the
       benefits they provide to the community.

       MOTION

       Councilmember Cotter moved to adopt the Joint Resolution of the Mayor and Municipal
       Council of Murray City, Utah Declaring Friday, May 5, 20223 as Murray Arbor Day. The motion
       was SECONDED by Councilmember Dominguez.

       ROLL CALL

       Ayes: Councilmember Markham, Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Dominguez
       Excused: Councilmember Turner, Councilmember Hrechkosy
       Motion passes 3-0

       DISCUSSION

       Mayor Hales finished reading the Joint Resolution into the record.

       Darin Bird and Judith Payne urged citizens to support efforts to protect trees and woodlands
       by planting trees that would benefit future generations while beautifying the city. The Shade
       Tree and Beautification Commission is responsible for organizing an annual event to celebrate
       Arbor Day and thanked the Mayor for his words and invited everyone to attend the event in the
       park on May 5th. They also shared that Murray City was the longest Tree City, USA community
       in Utah.

CITIZEN COMMENT(S)
Comments will be limited to three minutes, step to the microphone, state your name and city of residence,
and fill out the required form.

 The meeting was open for public comment.

 Lawrence Horman

    Lawrence Horman addressed the council and encouraged Murray City to propose a permanent
    inclement weather center for homeless individuals who have nowhere else to go during extreme
    temperatures. He suggested that the center could be used year-round as a homeless community
    center, with facilities like showers and washing machines available. Lawrence believed that such a
    center could ease the burden on existing service providers downtown and provide a safe and
    comfortable space for the homeless. He also noted that homeless individuals often use truck stops
    and community centers with gym and pool memberships to access hygiene facilities and that a
    permanent center like this could offer daytime services as well.

 Drue Kehl

    Drue Kehl introduced himself as a resident and a representative of some volunteer effort being
    planned by community members. He shared that he was tasked to provide a flood mitigation plan for
    the Little Cottonwood waterway that runs through their stake, supported by the state and members of
    the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. They planned to provide flood mitigation on April 29
    from 8 am to 1 pm by placing 15,000 sandbags along the creek in key locations that are on the city and
    county watch list. Drue Kehl asked Murray City for support, particularly in providing police presence,
    portable restrooms, and guaranteed resources for their efforts.

    The council and Mayor asked follow-up questions about the volunteer efforts and Drue Kehl confirmed
    that the event was being organized and volunteers were being recruited, but they want the city's
    assurance to pull it off with their resources. It was determined that Drue Kehl will continue to
    coordinate with city staff after the meeting.

 Clark Bullen

    Clark Bullen, a District Three resident, expressed gratitude to the Council and Administration for
    delaying the power rate increase pending further review. He also commended Public Works and the
    Power Department for their efforts during the recent severe winter weather. Clark Bullen mentioned
    when the council approved changes to the zoning for this property, they only considered height,
    parking, and green space, and it was mentioned that there would be a continued conversation about
    this property. Clark Bullen requested the council to do a Charrette or Town Hall to gather citizen
    feedback and map solutions to discuss the future of the property, which is currently owned by the
    Murray City RDA and serves as a community space. Clark suggested discussing allowed density,
    historic design/development standards, parking for the renovated theater, the feasibility of preserving
    the building, and the big tree out front. The property is currently zoned for high-density Mixed Use, and
    all proposals are required to include residential, but some council members would like to see
    commercial like a medical office building. If they want to see commercial-only projects, they should
    consider changing the zoning. Clark Bullen strongly encouraged the council to consider a Charrette or
    Town Hall because he has seen projects get to the proposal stage that citizens are not in favor of and
    have to go back to the drawing board, and it would be less painful to gather feedback now.

 No additional citizen comments were given, and the open citizen comment period was closed.

CONSENT AGENDA
None scheduled.
PUBLIC HEARING(S)
Staff, sponsor presentations and public comment will be given prior to Council action on the following
matter.
 1. Consider an ordinance amending the City's fiscal year 2022-2023 budget., Brenda Moore presenting
     PRESENTATION

     Brenda Moore shared a proposal to amend the City's fiscal year 2022-2023 budget for various
     projects.

     The proposed amendments included adjustments to the General Fund and Capital
     Improvement Projects fund. The General Fund will receive $365,000 in interest revenue, with
     allocations of $60,000 for park maintenance, $75,000 for snowplow blade maintenance,
     $40,000 for police onboarding and uniform expenses, and $190,000 for Park Center utility
     expenses. The General Fund will also receive an appropriate $9,288 in Utah State Liquor
     allocation for police equipment, but reduce $90,000 from the Zoo Arts and Parks Grant and
     remove it from reserves.

     In the Capital Improvement Projects fund, Brenda requested the council approve the receipt
     and appropriation of $758,2733 in Salt Lake County Tourism, Recreation, Culture, and
     Convention (TRCC) grant funds for the construction of the Murray Mansion Museum, $100,000
     in Salt Lake County TRCC grant funds for the construction of a playground in Murray Park, and
     $350,000 in State of Utah Arts and History grant funds for the renovation of the Murray
     Theater.

     Brenda Moore, also requested the ordinance allows her to transfer any amount above the
     transportation sales tax revenue to the Capital Projects fund at the close of the fiscal year
     2021-2022 and adjust the budget accordingly. Additionally, she requested authorization to
     transfer any amount from the General Fund to the Capital Projects fund at the close of the
     fiscal year 2021-2022 which exceeds a 25% fund balance as determined by Utah Code Ann
     section 10-6-116.

     CITIZEN COMMENTS

     The meeting was open for public comment.

     No citizen comments were given, and the open public comment period was closed.

     MOTION

     Councilmember Dominguez moved to approve an ordinance amending the City's fiscal year
     2022-2023 budget. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Cotter.

     ROLL CALL

     Ayes: Councilmember Markham, Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Dominguez
     Excused: Councilmember Turner, Councilmember Hrechkosy

     Motion passed 3-0

2. Consider a resolution approving the 2022 Municipal Wastewater Planning Program (MWPP)
   Report., Russ Kakala presenting

  Minutes Attachments
  1. MWPP 2022 Power Point.pdf

     PRESENTATION

     Ben Ford presented a PowerPoint presentation about the request to approve the 2022
     Municipal Wastewater Planning Program (MWPP) report. This report was required to be
     submitted to the Division of Water Quality and covered the financial health of the wastewater
     utility, the overall condition and assessment of the collection system, and mandatory reporting
     items.
Ben Ford highlighted only the changes that had occurred since the previous year and invited
questions.

Ben Ford is the Direct Responsible Charge (DRC) person for the Murray City collection system,
which was a grade three system. He noted that the annual user charge had increased from
$463 to $572.88, a change of $113. He also reported that the utility had enough revenue and
reserves to maintain financial stability, due to the rate increase and impact fees implemented
the previous year. He added that an impact fee study was included in the budget for the
upcoming year. The total replacement cost for the system's equipment had increased slightly.
Ben Ford then provided information on the system's three lift stations, and 135 miles of pipes,
and reported that there had been no major overflows in the past year, only one minor overflow
of about 100 gallons caused by a large grease deposit and a 55-gallon plastic bag. Ben Ford
speculated that a large garbage bag was the cause of an overflow. He reported that this was
the only overflow in the past year, which was required to be reported annually. The system had
28 new connections, mainly from the completion of the Fashion Creek Court subdivision and
the nearing completion of the Wynwood subdivision. The system served approximately 36,800
people and had over 9,400 total connections. Other districts, such as Murray, Cottonwood
Improvement, and Mount Olympus, also served parts of the city. Ben Ford, as the Chief DRC,
listed the operators employed in the system and noted that the system was compliant with
operator certifications. The management plan, a living document that guided the system's
operations, was audited annually, and a full audit was conducted every five years. Ben Ford
reported changes to the management plan due to the retirement of a department employee
and the hiring of a new supervisor. He also mentioned a change to the ownership range due to
fluctuations in Central Valley ownership. His city staff had identified problem areas that were
being maintained and repaired as resources allowed. These were listed on a hotspot list.

DISCUSSION

During the meeting, several speakers discussed various topics related to the wastewater
system. First, Councilmember Markham commended Ben Ford and his team for keeping up
with the state requirements and providing important guardrails for the department to ensure
the system's maintenance. Councilmember Markham also inquired about the city's opportunity
for employees to advance through the different levels of certification. Ben Ford confirmed that
the city provides opportunities for employees to advance up to a wastewater tech three-level
and beyond, depending on a vacancy.

Next, Councilmember Cotter asked about the city's water and sewer customer system
program. Ben Ford explained that the city does not have an official capacity assurance
program as defined by the state but adjusts potential leaks on a case-by-case basis.

Regarding the number of days with sewage bypass overflow or basement flooding in the
system due to rain or snowfall, Ben Ford mentioned that the system had some infiltration due
to an older system but did not anticipate any basement flooding this year.

Ben Ford also confirmed that any contractor that damages the line is responsible for fixing it,
although the city has someone to inspect the repairs. Lastly, Councilmember Cotter inquired
about the city's written policy regarding continuing education and training for wastewater
operators. Ben Ford replied that although there is no written policy, the city pays for all operator
certification tests and training expenses. However, the city reserves the right to not pay for
expenses if an operator is not invested in the process. Finally, the Council and Mayor
commended Ben Ford for his work and praised him as an example of an employee who had an
opportunity to advance and grow with the city.

CITIZEN COMMENTS

The meeting was open for public comment.

No citizen comments were given, and the open public comment period was closed.
      MOTION

      Councilmember Cotter moved to approve a resolution approving the 2022 Municipal
      Wastewater Planning Program (MWPP) Report. The motion was SECONDED by
      Councilmember Dominguez.

      ROLL CALL

      Ayes: Councilmember Markham, Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Dominguez
      Excused: Councilmember Turner, Councilmember Hrechkosy

      Motion passed 3-0

BUSINESS ITEM(S)
 1. Consider an ordinance , Brenda Moore presenting
   Consider an ordinance repealing paragraph (B) of sections 7.04.020, 13.48.060 and amending
   section 15.20.260 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to operational transfers of the Solid
   Waste and Recycling Fund, the Stormwater Fund, and the Power Fund.

      PRESENTATION

      Brenda Moore shared a proposal to amend an ordinance to repeal paragraph (B) of sections
      7.04.020 and 13.48.060 and amend section 15.20.260 of the Murray City Municipal Code
      relating to operational transfers of the Solid Waste and Recycling Fund, the Stormwater Fund,
      and the Power Fund. The purpose of this ordinance is to update the financial standards of
      these funds to maintain fiscal soundness.

      In section 2, the ordinance repeals paragraph (B) of sections 7.04.020 and 13.48.060 of the
      Murray City Municipal Code. These sections relate to the Solid Waste and Recycling
      Management Fund and the Stormwater Utility Enterprise Fund, respectively. The repealed
      paragraphs specify the reserve level for the funds and the annual transfer from these funds to
      the City's General Fund.

      In section 3, the ordinance amends section 15.20.260 of the Murray City Municipal Code
      relating to the Power Fund financial standards. The amended section specifies the operational
      transfers from the Power Enterprise Fund to the City's General Fund, excluding certain
      disbursements and revenues from the calculation. The City Council may modify the operational
      transfer.

      The ordinance aims to maintain the fiscal soundness of these funds by updating their financial
      standards. In addition, the Murray City Municipal Council would continue to monitor and
      manage the funds to ensure their stability and liquidity.

      DISCUSSION

      Councilmember Dominguez expressed confusion regarding the need to change the language if
      the city is no longer performing the required solid waste and stormwater transfers. Brenda
      Moore clarified that the transfers are still required by the ordinance, but the city has stopped
      performing them and is now attempting to align the ordinance with current practice. When
      Councilmember Dominguez inquired about the state's position on the matter, Brenda Moore
      explained that while some individuals within the state may disapprove of the transfers, the city
      can follow all the rules. Brenda Moore also recommended leaving the transfer percentage
      unchanged during budget time, although the language in the ordinance would now allow for
      modifications while maintaining consistency across water, wastewater, and power sections.

      MOTION

      Councilmember Cotter moved to approve the ordinance repealing paragraph (B) of sections
       7.04.020, 13.48.060 and amending section 15.20.260 of the Murray City Municipal Code
       relating to operational transfers of the Solid Waste and Recycling Fund, the Stormwater Fund,
       and the Power Fund. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Dominguez.

       ROLL CALL

       Ayes: Councilmember Markham, Councilmember Cotter
       Abstain: Councilmember Dominguez
       Excused: Councilmember Turner, Councilmember Hrechkosy

       Motion failed.

       DISCUSSION

       Attorney G.L. Critchfield clarified since the issue did not receive the necessary number of votes
       and failed, the council would need to make a motion to set a specific date for when it can be
       discussed again in either the committee or city council meeting.

       SECOND MOTION

       Councilmember Cotter moved to reconsider the request to amend the ordinance repealing
       paragraph (B) of sections 7.04.020, 13.48.060 and amending section 15.20.260 of the Murray
       City Municipal Code relating to operational transfers of the Solid Waste and Recycling Fund,
       the Stormwater Fund, and the Power Fund. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember
       Dominguez.

       SECOND ROLL CALL

       Ayes: Councilmember Markham, Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Dominguez
       Excused: Councilmember Turner, Councilmember Hrechkosy

       THIRD MOTION

       Councilmember Dominguez made a motion to table this discussion until April 18, 2023, during
       the City Council meeting. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Cotter.

       THIRD ROLL CALL

       Ayes: Councilmember Markham, Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Dominguez
       Excused: Councilmember Turner, Councilmember Hrechkosy

MAYOR'S REPORT AND QUESTIONS

 Mayor Hales expressed gratitude towards all the employees who helped out during the recent snowstorm.
 He also mentioned that they planned to visit the New City Hall soon and invited others to join. He talked
 about the progress being made in moving to the new offices, mentioning that there were a few hiccups,
 but everything was still moving forward. Finally, he expressed appreciation for the continued support from
 the city councilmembers.

ADJOURNMENT

 Councilmember Cotter motioned to adjourn at 7:24 p.m.
Municipal
Wastewater
Planning Program
(MWPP)
Report
Council Presentation
April 4th 2023
          Citizen
         Comments
Limited to three minutes, unless otherwise approved by Council
Business Item
                                    City Attorney/City
                                    Recorder
                                    Interlocal Agreement for 2023
                                    Elections (with Salt Lake County)

                                    Committee of the Whole and Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                     DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗May 2, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 To discuss the lnterlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County for
G.L. Critchfield         Municipal Elections 2023.

                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Approval of Resolution
801-264-2640
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Proposed Resolution and Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
G.L. Critchfield

                    Budget Impact
                         $40,000



                    Description of this /tem
                         The Recorders Office is requesting approval of a contract with
Required Time for
                         Salt Lake County Election's Division to assist in conducting the
Presentation
                         City's 2023 primary and general municipal elections.
ϭϬ DŝŶƵƚĞƐ

Is This Time             The City has contracted with the County for several years. They
Sensitive                have all the equipment needed and will take care of hiring
                         election workers, setting up polling location, ballot printing, etc.
No
                         I am recommending the city continue to allow the county to
Mayor’s Approval         conduct our 2023 municipal elections.



Date
April 18, 2023
                                RESOLUTION NO. R 23-


        A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING AND RATIFYING THE EXECUTION OF
        AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY
        AND SALT LAKE COUNTY TO PROVIDE ELECTION SERVICES TO
        ASSIST THE CITY IN CONDUCTING THE CITY’S 2023 MUNICIPAL
        ELECTION.


      WHEREAS, Title 11, Chapter 13, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended,
permits public agencies to enter into cooperative agreements to provide joint
undertakings and services; and

        WHEREAS, the City wants Salt Lake County (“County”) to provide the services of
its clerk’s office, elections division, to assist the City in conducting the City’s 2023
municipal election; and

        WHEREAS, an Agreement has been prepared to accomplish such purpose.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Municipal Council of Murray City,
Utah:

        1. It hereby approves and ratifies the Agreement dated February 14, 2023
between the City and the County for the County to provide the services of its clerk’s
office, elections division, to assist the City in conducting the City’s 2023 Municipal
Election.

      2. The Agreement is in the interest of rendering the best service with the least
possible expenditure of public funds.

        3. Mayor Brett A. Hales’ execution of the Agreement is hereby authorized and
ratified on behalf of the City.

      4. Mayor Brett A. Hales, is hereby authorized to act in accordance with the
terms of the Agreement.

        DATED this     day of April, 2023.

                                             MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                             _____________________________________
                                             Garry Hrechkosy, Chair
ATTEST:


_________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Adjournment
