Committee of the
 Whole Meeting
 August 1, 2023
                               Murray City Municipal Council
                                Committee of the Whole
                                     Meeting Notice
                                                   August 1, 2023
                                                  Murray City Center

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Murray City Municipal Council will hold a Committee of the
Whole meeting beginning at 5:30 p.m. on Tuesday, August 1, 2023 in the Poplar Meeting Room #151
located at Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Murray, UT.

Meeting Agenda

5:30 p.m.          Committee of the Whole – Poplar Meeting Room #151
                   Garry Hrechkosy conducting.

Approval of Minutes
    Committee of the Whole – June 6, 2023
    Committee of the Whole – July 11, 2023

Discussion Items
    1. UAMPS presentation on the current status of SMR (Small Modular Reactors) – Rich Walje,
        Carbon Free Power Project Sr. VP of Business Development (45 minutes)

Adjournment


NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City Recorder
(801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the other
Council Members and all other persons present in the Poplar Meeting Room will be able to hear all discussions.

On Friday, July 28, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Murray City Hall, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City Recorder. A copy
of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing website at
http://pmn.utah.gov .




                                                                     Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                     Council Executive Director
                                                                     Murray City Municipal Council
 Committee
of the Whole
   Minutes
                                         MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                          COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                                                Meeting Minutes
                                             Tuesday, June 6, 2023
               Murray City Center - 5025 South State Street, Conference Room, Murray, Utah 84107

Attendance:
  Council Members and others:
  Garry Hrechkosy – Chair     District #5 – Via Telecom
  Phil Markham – Vice Chair   District #1
  Pam Cotter                  District #2
  Rosalba Dominguez           District #3
  Diane Turner                District #4 - Excused

    Brett Hales        Mayor                          Jennifer Kennedy     City Council Executive Director
    Doug Hill          Chief Administrative Officer   Pattie Johnson       City Council Administration
    Greg Bellon        Power Director                 Crystal Brown        City Council Administration
    Matt Youngs        Assistant Power Director       Joey Mittelman       Fire Chief
    G.L. Critchfield   City Attorney                  Russ Kakala          Public Works Director
    Anthony Semone     NeighborWorks                  Brenda Moore         Finance Director
    Rob White          IT Director                     Loran Pasalich      Chamber of Commerce
    Citizens

Conducting: Mr. Hrechkosy called the meeting to order at 4:30 pm.

Approval of Minutes: Committee of the Whole, May 2, 2023 and Committee of the Whole, May 16, 2023.
Ms. Cotter moved to approve, and Mr. Markham seconded the motion. All in favor 4-0.

Discussion Items:
• Attorney’s Office Report.
      City Attorney G.L. Critchfield explained how his department works to advise and serve two separate
      forms of government within Murray, which are the executive branch and the legislative branch. Mr.
      Critchfield discussed how the attorneys in his office are familiar with the City’s internal politics and
      culture. This results in excellent legal counsel and services provided to the City Council,
      Redevelopment Agency, Municipal Building Authority, the Mayor, department directors, and
      employees all pertaining to the legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities of Murray City. He
      shared three main functions of his office, which are advising, monitoring the legal landscape, and
      helping to manage transactions. He said with two forms of government there is sometimes overlap
      but that is how a healthy city government should operate. He explained how City attorneys also
      attend planning commission meetings; and advise arts, history, and library board members as well
      and work closely with the ethics commission. Mr. Critchfield supervises risk management related to
      small claims, but he oversees large claims, manages financial transactions, prepares for execution
      agreements, and supervises the prosecution team. Every misdemeanor is under his jurisdiction, and
      attorneys visit the City’s Justice Courthouse daily. He reported two open attorney positions and
      noted that due to competitive salary packages, it was difficult for Murray to replace the attorneys
      who have moved on. He spoke about professional conduct rules, ethical rules and how he and his
      department abide by those rules for the client of the City, which is the corporate body where it is
      his priority to keep separate two forms of government in a professional and unbiased manner.

•     Fiscal Year 2022-2023 Budget Amendment.
        Finance Director Brenda Moore said most allocations in the year-end budget amendment were
        cleanup to ensure that the City did not end over-budget. She discussed transfers that would fund
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of June 6, 2023                            DRAFT                                               Page 2


       capital projects related to relocating the City’s museum to the Murray Mansion and flood mitigation
       efforts. She noted interest revenue allocations for various needs from the GF (General Fund),
       transfers to the GF, as well as allocations related to the fire department for overtime, the building
       division for professional services, the Solid Waste Fund’s roll off dumpster program, and the Power
       Fund for the increased cost of purchased power. The Council would consider the budget
       amendment in a future public hearing.

•   An ordinance amending Section 15.20.250 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to Electrical
    Service Schedule 35 for Solar Rates.
      Power Director Greg Bellon discussed the proposed change to the existing ordinance that would
      increase the permitted commercial solar size rate from 10 kilowatts to 500 kilowatts. Mr. Bellon
      confirmed the change would not affect the current rate of any existing residential solar customer.
      Assistant Power Director Mr. Youngs gave a brief review about the proposal which was discussed
      with the Council in a previous work session. He reported no changes to that proposal where they
      hope to accommodate commercial solar customers who want to have larger systems. Mr. Bellon
      felt capping the load at 500 kilowatts was very generous and it would be interesting to see how
      many customers would participate.

•   An ordinance relating to the financial standards of the Solid Waste, Water, Wastewater, Stormwater,
    and Power Enterprise Funds.
      Mr. Markham said the proposed ordinance was basically textual cleanup to better align all
      enterprise funds that produce revenue. He explained that in the past, the Power Fund had what
      seemed to be separate standards, but with approval of the proposed ordinance all enterprise funds
      would be treated the same. From now on they would all have a required reserve balance of 30%;
      all have a required master plan that is updated every five years, and all required to have a rate study
      completed prior to any rate increase proposal. Mr. Markham noted all language was standardized
      to the approval of all related department directors. Mayor Hales confirmed. There was consensus
      to move the proposal forward to a council meeting for consideration.

•   New City Hall Policies.
     City Council Executive Director Jennifer Kennedy shared the Executive Order implemented by the
     administration for the new city hall building. She asked the Council, as a separate legislative branch,
     whether they would like to adopt the same policies or create their own. Mr. Hrechkosy felt it made
     sense to be consistent with what Mayor Hales established for his administration and saw no
     problem with the City Council abiding by the same policies. Ms. Dominguez proposed a change
     regarding the policy, where anything modified, purchased, or installed must go through Ms.
     Kennedy who will work with the facilities manager. All agreed. Ms. Kennedy would coordinate with
     Mr. Critchfield to draft an ordinance for consideration in a future council meeting.

•   City Council Travel Policy updates.
      Mr. Hrechkosy said due to the absence of Ms. Turner, the discussion would be tabled until the June
      27, 2023 Committee of the Whole meeting. A final vote on the new travel policy would occur during
      the June 27, 2023 Council Meeting. There was consensus to delay the discussion.

Adjournment: 5:28 p.m.
                                                                 Pattie Johnson
                                                                 Council Office Administrator III
                                     MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                      COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                                            Meeting Minutes
                                          Tuesday, July 11, 2023
           Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Poplar Conference Room, Murray, Utah 84107
Attendance:
  Council Members and others:
  Garry Hrechkosy – Chair     District #5
  Phil Markham – Vice Chair   District #1
  Pam Cotter                  District #2
  Rosalba Dominguez           District #3
  Diane Turner                District #4 - Excused

Brett Hales        Mayor                                Jennifer Kennedy    City Council Executive Director
Doug Hill          CAO (Chief Administrative Officer)   Pattie Johnson      Council Administration
Susan Nixon        CED Senior Planner                   Tammy Kikuchi       Chief Communications Officer
Brenda Moore       Finance Director                     Ben Gray             IT
Craig Burnett      Police Chief                         Brooke Smith        City Recorder
Mark Richardson    City Attorney                        Joey Mittelman      Fire Chief
Russ Kakala        Public Works Director                Steve Roberson      Deputy Fire Marshal
Ben Ford           Wastewater Superintendent            Anthony Semone      NeighborWorks
Citizens

Conducting: Council Chair Garry Hrechkosy called the meeting to order at 4:30 pm.

Approval of Minutes: Committee of the Whole – June 6, 2023. Ms. Dominguez requested one update to
the minutes. Edited minutes would be reconsidered at a future meeting.

Discussion Items:
• Murray Power Rate Study.
      Power Director Greg Bellon explained that an emergency power rate increase was requested a few
      months ago to address soaring energy prices, but Council Members asked that a rate study be
      completed first. As a result, Mr. Bellon collaborated with Dave Berg Consulting to get the rate study
      conducted. Mr. Berg presented the final Electric Cost of Service Rate Design Study to discuss options
      for moving a power rate increase forward.

      Mr. Berg explained that normally the power rate generates funding to make the utility function, but
      due to significant cost increases in energy over the last year, a negative financial impact occurred.
      This was why he determined that more revenue was needed to turn things around as he calculated
      the new rate design which included a cost of service for different types of customers. The
      recommendations included two possible options for raising power rates and a suggested update to
      the existing SCA (Supply Cost Adjustment) formula.

      Mr. Berg confirmed the City had not implemented a power rate increase in 11 years, so keeping the
      existing rate was not an option. He explained that currently operations at the existing rate resulted
      in a $10 million loss, so without a rate increase a deficit would continue to grow annually. He said
      because cash reserves beginning at $24 million, would soon fall to just below $15 million, capital
      improvements were minimized as much as possible. Mr. Bellon agreed and reported that a new
      master plan was underway which would provide a five-year plan for completing capital
      improvements.
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of July 11, 2023                           DRAFT                                             Page 2


       Mr. Berg analyzed the expenses of the utility to understand the cost of service for various types of
       customers, which was compared to the percentage of revenue. As a result, the following options
       were analyzed for raising the current power rate:
         • Set a goal of $10 million in reserves at the end of FY 2026.
         • Option #1: An immediate onetime increase, which would be 13% for general service small
            customers and 27% for all other classes.
         • Option #2: Three annual increases, which would be 7% each year for general service small
            customers, and 14% each year for all other classes. It was noted that after three years, Option
            #2 rates are 15% higher than Option #1 rates.
         • Implement a new SCA formula.

       Discussions related to existing conditions continued, as well as, for both options regarding capital
       projects, peak and off-peak seasonal use, low-income customers, small commercial users, and large
       and ultra large commercial customers. Mr. Berg pointed out that Option #1 provided a slower way
       of reaching the 2026 goal of $10 million in reserves. He provided a chart to examine a monthly
       residential customer by comparing Murray’s current monthly base rate of $3.35 to other Utah city
       rates. He pointed out that Murray’s current $3.35 rate was not enough to cover operating expenses,
       and the $10 range was where most Utah cities were headed, which was comparable to Rocky
       Mountain power rates. Mr. Berg explained in detail projected operating results and proposed rates
       for both Option #1 and #2 and the projected cash reserves for each option.

       A review of the City’s current SCA policy occurred and new SCA recommendations were outlined as:
         • Implement automatic SCA to adjust bills up or down if actual power costs are different.
         • Make adjustments monthly.
         • Remove need to proactively change rates for conditions outside utility’s control.
         • Projections would be based on $0.0608 per kilowatt hour for wholesale costs (which is the
             proposed new SCA formula).

       Mr. Berg said Murray’s current power rates have been the lowest in the State, lower than other
       Utah Associated Municipal Power System members and lower than Rocky Mountain Power
       customers, because market pricing was favorable for Murray, until now. That is why with
       substantial changes to the power industry and significant power cost increases, adjustments to the
       Murray Power rate would come at a great cost regardless.

       Mr. Markham was impressed with the fairness that was built into the rate structures presented.
       Council Members agreed and a study of rate structures and utility bill examples continued to
       understand precise increases. Option #1 and Option #2 seasonal peak usage costs were compared
       in detail. Demand charges were analyzed, and high energy users were compared with low-income
       users. He personally favored Option #2 and pointed out that Option #1 would most assuredly
       guarantee that another significant rate increase would eventually be needed again. Ms. Moore
       commented that Council Members recently approved an ordinance requiring all enterprise funds to
       maintain reserves of 30% of revenue, and Option #1 would not provide that savings. Mr. Hrechkosy
       agreed Option #2 provided a better pathway to ensure reserve requirements. Ms. Dominguez said
       impact fees would help with coming growth. Mr. Bellon confirmed existing impact fees are in place,
       but they would review them again in the next year to ensure good coverage.

       After more discussion Mr. Hrechkosy asked each Council Member for direction in moving forward:
        • Mr. Markham: Option #2 with the new SCA formula.
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of July 11, 2023                           DRAFT                                               Page 3


        •    Ms. Cotter: Option #1 with the new SCA formula.
        •    Ms. Dominguez: Option #1 with the new SCA formula.
        •    Mr. Hrechkosy: Option #2 with the SCA formula.
        •    Ms. Turner: Option #2 by text.

        The consensus was to move Option #2 forward that would include consideration of the new SCA
        formula. A final decision would be made during the July 18, 2023 council meeting.

•   Power Department Report.
      Mr. Bellon oversees 45 employees in his department. Recently crews worked to replace and fix 116
      nonworking street lights throughout the City. Unit number two at the hydro power plant is now up
      and working with a few minor problems, unit one is still not working due to programing issues. With
      half of the resource operating, the plant is generating 2.5 megawatts of energy. Public Power
      festivities will be held on September 15, 2023.

•   Reports from Boards and Commissions representatives:
     UIA (Utah Infrastructure Agency) – Finance Director Brenda Moore reported that the City would
       receive $540,000 in dividends from UIA, due to a 1.9% rate adjustment. The net bond payment is
       now $1.4 million which is less than the original debt payment. Ms. Moore would adjust the budget
       to reflect the increase.

        UTOPIA (Utah Telecommunication Open Infrastructure Agency), COG (Council of Governments),
         Salt Lake VECC (Valley Emergency Communications Center) and Metro Fire – CAO Doug Hill gave
         the following reports:
         • UTOPIA: Total availability in the City is now just over 16,000 properties which is about 100%
              of the City. Total subscribers have increased to 4,500 customers which equates to a little over
              30% take rate. Overall the network has over 178,000 addresses with about 55,000 active
              members. This is growth of about 1,500 homes per month with approximately 600 new
              subscribers per month. All of the original member cities are completely built out. Construction
              is projected for Pleasant Grove, Syracuse, Santa Clara and Cedar Hills by this summer and a
              contract was executed to complete the city of Bountiful. Mr. Hill said there is a benefit to
              Murray when more cities join the service.
         • COG: – Over the last two months presentations were given about a federal grant program
              related to climate pollution reduction, plans for corridor preservation throughout Salt Lake
              County, and the biggest issue was the Winter Response Plan, where Murray is legally required
              to participate. The plan intends to provide temporary homeless shelters during the winter by
              August 1, 2023. Currently a location has not been identified in Murray to provide 600 beds,
              so $120,000 would be contributed to the Homeless Coalition. Other items of discussion
              included a transit study for the Cottonwood Canyons, various advisory board appointments
              and COG election appointments.
         • VECC: The call center continues to meet all of their performance call standards. Mr. Hill said
              budgetarily he voted against a proposed 5% COLA for VECC, because he did not feel it was
              right to approve a higher COLA than what was approved for Murray City employees. The 5%
              COLA was approved.
         • Metro Fire: Nothing to report.

        CVW (Central Valley Water) – Wastewater Superintendent Ben Ford said the CVW budget would
         be presented to the board this coming September, with final consideration in October. As part of
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of July 11, 2023                             DRAFT                                                Page 4


         the budget one more bond is requested to complete the rebuild project. The estimated amount
         is $50 million for a last phase of construction that will occur this fall. A federal grant was approved
         for $5 million that would go towards that need. Mr. Ford did not expect the bond to require
         another Murray City wastewater rate increase. Mr. Markham asked what the total bonding
         amount for the entire CVW expansion project was. Mr. Ford said approximately $370 million;
         construction is ongoing and due to the pandemic; the completion date was moved to 2026 instead
         of the original 2024 deadline. He reported that an ammonia violation occurred in the discharge
         permit, but there would be no penalty issued. In addition, CVW was able to lock in natural gas
         pricing for the next year and a half at a very low rate of $4.58 per unit.

•   Discussion on an ordinance amending Section 17.16.010 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating
    to the appointment of hearing officers for land use appeals and variances.
      Senior Planner Susan Nixon explained the proposed text amendment to reduce the minimum
      number of hearing officers from three officers to two; and also increase the number of consecutive
      terms hearing officers may serve, from three to five years. Ms. Nixon said currently the City only has
      two officers, which puts the City in Code violation so the text amendment would put the City in
      compliance. There was a brief discussion about the volunteer program that is very helpful to the
      City.

Mr. Hrechkosy announced that District #1 Council Member Phil Markham would accept a full-time
appointment by Mayor Hales. Effective July 18, 2023, Mr. Markham is resigned from the Murray City
Council, and would be sworn into office during the July 18, 2023 Council Meeting as Murray City’s new
Community and Economic Development Director. The application process to fill the District #1 council
position begins Wednesday, July 19, 2023 and all applications must be submitted by 5:00 p.m. on
Thursday, August 3, 2023. A Special Council meeting to hire the interim council member is scheduled for
5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, August 8, 2023. Council voting to replace vice-chair and board positions currently
held by Mr. Markham will occur during the August 1, 2023 council meeting.

Adjournment: 6:23 p.m.
                                                                   Pattie Johnson
                                                                   Council Office Administrator III
Discussion
   Item
                                       Power Department

                                       UAMPS Presentation


                                       Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                                     August 1, 2023


Department                Purpose of Proposal
Director                    To learn more about the current status of Small Nuclear Reactors
Greg Bellon                 (SMR).

                          Action Requested
Phone #                     No action requested.
801-264-2705
                          Attachments
Presenters
                            None
Rich Walje, CFPP Sr. VP
of Business
Development               Budget Impact
                            None



                          Description of this tem
                            Introduction: Mr. Rich Walje is the CFPP LLC Senior Vice
Required Time for
                            President of Business Development. Mr. Walje brings a wealth of
Presentation
                            experience and expertise to the Carbon Free Power Project with
45 Minutes                  an extensive background in the industry. He possesses a
Is This Time                Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering and an MBA
Sensitive                   from the University of Utah, along with a certificate of
                            completion from the University of Michigan s electric utility
No
                            executive program. His business activities have included
Mayor’s Approval            development work on renewable energy, electrolytic hydrogen,
                            low carbon intensity fertilizer, renewable natural gas, and long
                            duration energy storage.

Date                        Continued....
July 18, 2023
Prior to his current position, Mr. Walje established his professional skills in a variety of leadership
positions, having served as CIO of Scottish Power, Senior Vice President of PacifiCorp s Shared
Service business unit, President and CEO of Rocky Mountain Power, and President of the Gateway
Transmission Projects.
Adjournment
