                                 NOTICE OF A MEETING OF THE
                               CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                   THURSDAY, APRIL 17, 2025

5:00 p.m.         Council Dinner – Council members will be eating dinner. No city business will be
                  discussed.

5:30 p.m.         Briefing Session - The Council will review and discuss the agenda items; NO decisions will be
                  made


PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a meeting on
Thursday, April 17, 2025, at 6:00 p.m. Members of the Council may participate by electronic means if
needed. The Council Chambers shall serve as the anchor location.
* Agenda items may be moved in order, sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or in this agenda. Interested
parties are encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

To provide a public comment or make a comment during any public hearing, may do so in the following ways:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@holladayut.gov



                                                    AGENDA

I.       Welcome – Mayor Dahle

II.      Pledge of Allegiance

III.     Public Comments
         Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda may provide their comment via
         email to the Council before 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting to scarlson@holladayut.gov with the
         subject line: Public Comment. Comments are subject to the Public Comment Policy set forth below

IV.      Consideration of Resolution 2025-05 Adopting City Financial Policies

V.       Consideration of Resolution 2025-06 Approving an Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake
         County for Election Services

VI.      Consideration of Resolution 2025-07 Approving an Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake
         County for Traffic Signal Installation (1925 E Murray Holladay Rd)

VII.     Consideration of Resolution 2025-08 Approving an Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake
         County for Reimbursement of 2025 TRCC Grant Funds (city hall auditorium renovation)

VIII.    Consent Agenda
         a. Approval of Minutes – March 6 & 20, 2025
IX.       City Manager Report - Gina

X.        Council Reports & District Issues

XI.       Recess City Council in a Work Meeting:
          a. Discussion on Fireworks Ordinance
          b. Code Update- Review of Title 2
          c. Budget Discussion:
             * Central Wasatch Commission (CWC)
             * Sales Tax Assumptions
          d. Calendar
             Council Meetings – May 1,8 & 15, June 5 & 12
          e. Other Business

XII.      Closed Session For the Purpose(s) Described in U.C.A. 52-4-204 and 205

XIII.     Adjourn




 Public Comment Policy & Procedure: During each regular Council Meeting there will be a Public Comment
 Time. The purpose of the Public Comment Time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council. Citizens requesting to
 address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and present it to the City Recorder. In general,
 the Chairman will allow an individual three minutes to address the Council. A spokesman, recognized as
 representing a group in attendance, may be allowed up to five minutes. Comments which cannot be made within
 these time limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting so
 they can be copied and distributed to the Council. At the conclusion of the Citizen Comment time, the Chairman
 may direct staff to assist the citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative
 department(s); or take no action. This policy also applies to all Public Hearings.

 CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
 I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above agenda notice was
 posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,
 and was emailed to the Salt Lake Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

 DATE POSTED: Monday, April 14, 2025 at 11:00 am
 Stephanie N. Carlson MMC,
 City Recorder, City of Holladay


         Reasonable accommodation for individuals with disabilities or those needing language interpretation
      services can be provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at
             least three days in advance. TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2025-05

        A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY ADOPTING
       POLICIES RELATING TO THE FINANCIAL AND FISCAL MANAGEMENT OF THE CITY

        WHEREAS, the City Manager and the City Finance Director have made a
recommendation to the Council that the Council approve and adopt policies relating to the
financial and fiscal management of the City; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the proposed policies and finds that they will
benefit the public and will promote the fiscal integrity of the City;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

       Section 1. Approval. The City Council of the City of Holladay hereby adopts the
Financial Policies attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.

             PASSED AND APPROVED this ___ day of April, 2025.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL


                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Robert Dahle, Mayor


[SEAL]                                           VOTING:
                                                 Ty Brewer                  Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Matt Durham                Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Paul Fotheringham          Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Drew Quinn                 Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Emily Gray                 Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Robert Dahle               Yea        Nay ___
City of Holladay




Financial Policies
Table of Contents

Introduction ........................................................................................ 1
General Fund Reserve......................................................................... 1
Reserve Policies in Other Funds ........................................................ 2
Revenue .............................................................................................. 3
Expenditure ........................................................................................ 4
Operating Budget ............................................................................... 4
Capital Asset Management ................................................................. 6
Long-Term Financial Planning .......................................................... 7
Debt .................................................................................................... 7
Accounting, Auditing, and Financial Reporting ................................ 8
Internal Control and Risk Management ............................................. 9
Procurement ...................................................................................... 10
Cash Receipting and Deposit ............................................................ 11
Investment ......................................................................................... 11
Credit Card Payment ......................................................................... 12
City Issued Credit Cards .................................................................... 13
Introduction
Purpose

The purpose of Financial Policies is to set forth parameters and guidelines for prudent ﬁscal
operational practices and management. These policies have been approved by management and
formally adopted by resolution by the Holladay City Council.



Formal Adoption of Financial Policies

The City of Holladay Financial Policies were updated and adopted by a resolution of the Holladay
City Council (insert resolution) on April X, 2025.


General Fund Reserve
Purpose:

The purpose of the City of Holladay’s general fund reserve policies is to ensure the city is complying
with Utah state law. Additionally, these policies enable the city to plan for contingencies, maintain a
good standing with rating agencies, avoid interest expenses, generate investment income, and
ensure cash availability when revenue is unavailable.



Policies:

Utah Code § 10-6-116 requires municipalities to maintain an unrestricted (committed, assigned,
and unassigned) general fund balance between ﬁve and thirty-ﬁve percent of general fund
revenues. Holladay will maintain a General Fund balance (reserve) of no less than ﬁfteen percent of
budgeted general fund revenues.



The amount in reserves will be calculated by adding the ﬁscal year ending committed, assigned,
and unassigned fund balances less the fund balance appropriated in the subsequent ﬁscal year.
Holladay will maintain a General Fund balance (reserve) of ﬁfteen percent of budgeted general fund
revenues, though the City Council may direct staff to reserve up to the state limit of thirty-ﬁve
percent.



The reserve may be used at the discretion of the City Council for unanticipated, non-recurring
needs, temporary shortfalls, or in a state of emergency. Once used, reserves should be replenished
in a timely manner. Unassigned general fund balance in excess of ﬁfteen percent may be used for
one-time purchases. Additionally, the City may periodically use unassigned fund balance when


                                                                                            1|Pa ge
property tax rates have been increased in a prior year to cover operating expenses in future years.
This is done in an effort to avoid the need for annual property tax rate increases.


Reserve Policies in Other Funds
Purpose:

Holladay's reserve policies provide working capital for the city. These funds support continuity of
operations, maintain a stable fee structure, and provide capital replacement funds. Such policies
also contribute to maintaining a good standing with credit agencies and create a better working
relationship between the governing board and staff.



Policies:

Capital Projects Fund

This fund is used to accumulate funds for capital projects and to track spending on capital projects.
Reserve funds will ﬂuctuate as projects are identiﬁed.



Storm Water Utility Fund

The City of Holladay will strive to maintain working capital (current assets minus current liabilities)
of no less than 60 days’ worth of annual operating expenses in the Storm Water Utility Fund.



To maintain adequate reserves, Holladay should conduct an analysis of its utility rates on a regular
basis. Rate increases, if needed, shall be proposed to the City Council during the annual budgeting
process.



To substantiate the value of Accounts Receivable in the enterprise funds, the City will work with
contracted agencies to ensure accurate and timely collection.



The minimum working capital reserve may be used at the discretion of the City Council for
temporary shortfalls or to downsize operations. Once used, the reserve should be replenished in a
timely manner. If reserves fall below the 60-day minimum, a plan for replenishment should be
included in the subsequent year’s budget planning process. Excess working capital may be used for
capital improvements or for one-time purchases.




                                                                                             2|Pa ge
Other Funds:

Adequate reserves will be considered.


Revenue
Purpose:

Holladay has established revenue policies to ensure sufficient and stable revenues in order to
consistently produce desired programs and services. These policies help create and maintain fair
and consistent revenue sources.



Policies:

The City of Holladay strives to achieve diversiﬁcation and stabilization of the revenue base. While
recognizing that property taxes are the most stable, the City will not increase property taxes so long
as other revenues such as sales tax and franchise fees are adequately funding operations.



Holladay will not use one-time revenues towards ongoing expenditures. User fees will be charged to
obtain cost recovery for regulatory services such as building permits, plan checks, and business
licensing.



Administrative fees will be charged by the General Fund to the Enterprise Funds to recapture direct
and indirect costs which beneﬁt all funds. These fees will be reviewed annually in association with
the budget process. A municipal fee schedule shall be reviewed and adopted by the City Council in
conjunction with the operating and capital budgets.



Before applying for and accepting grants and donations, the City will assess the merits of a
particular program as if it were funded with local tax dollars. Local tax dollars will not be used to
make up for losses of intergovernmental aid without ﬁrst reviewing the program and its merits as a
budgetary increment.



A conservative approach will be used to forecast revenues. However, when such an approach leads
to considerations of raising taxes or cutting services, a more objective approach will be analyzed in
order to avoid undesirable budget-balancing measures that later prove unnecessary. Multi-year
forecasts will be prepared and presented to the Council annually as part of the budget process.




                                                                                            3|Pa ge
Expenditure
Purpose:

Holladay's expenditure policies ensure that public funds are spent with integrity, directness, and
transparency. City policy ensures these expenditures are directed to services that support City
Council priorities and community needs.



Policies:

Ongoing expenditures will not expand beyond the City of Holladay’s ability to pay for them with
current revenues. When practical, resources should be used for preventative investments that can
be made to avoid larger costs in the future. Funding for new programs and services should be
limited to the extent that they can be reasonably funded over the near to long term given the current
revenue stream.



Increasing efficiencies and effectiveness of the delivery of City services through process review,
technology improvements, or outsourcing must be considered before adding permanent staff. Staff
shall prepare an analysis of costs borne by the General Fund which beneﬁts other funds, most
importantly, enterprise funds. Enterprise Funds will reimburse the General Fund for these costs
through administrative fees, which are appropriated as part of the budget each year.



Efforts will be made to maintain compensation packages that are sufficient to attract and retain
quality employees.



Salary range structures shall be evaluated periodically to determine the relative competitiveness of
the pay structure to the job market. The midpoint of the salary range is the market value against
which the City will assess its pay plan relative to the job market. If the midpoint of the City’s salary
range is more than ﬁve percent below the market for any given position, the grade of that particular
position will be adjusted upward.



Holladay’s pay plan shall be reviewed and adopted annually by the City Council in conjunction with
the annual budget. Staffing shall not exceed the authorized level, and all new positions must be
approved by the City Council before fulﬁllment.


Operating Budget
Purpose:

                                                                                             4|Pa ge
Holladay recognizes operating budget policies as being among the most important public
documents produced by the city. Operating budget policies ensure the budget establishes the city's
taxing and spending direction. Policies are set to create enough leeway to ﬂuctuate with community
and economic need.



Policies:

The City of Holladay will adopt an annual operating budget for all funds. Budgets are prepared on a
modiﬁed accrual basis. This includes the City’s proprietary funds which use full accrual basis in the
Annual Comprehensive Financial Statements. Proprietary funds are budgeted for on modiﬁed
accrual basis because this approach aligns more closely with the nature of governmental ﬁnancial
planning and resource management. Under the modiﬁed accrual basis, capital expenditures and
the redemption of bonds are recorded as expenditures. Depreciation and amortization costs are
not budgeted since these costs are non-cash transactions. However, staff will perform an analysis
to ensure each proprietary fund will not go over budget when depreciation expense is factored.



Budget policies deﬁne the broad guidelines under which the budget process will operate. Staff is
then responsible for designing a process that conforms to the policies. Because the city’s budget is
a spending plan, and because circumstances change throughout the ﬁscal year, staff may propose
budget adjustments for any or all funds throughout the year. Those adjustments require discussion
and adoption by the City Council to become effective.



The City Manager has authority to reallocate line items within a department budget, but any
interdepartmental budget adjustments must be approved by the City Council. Grants, additional
personnel, new programs, etc. must be appropriated by the City Council. Budget shortfalls in
personnel costs may not be supplemented by surpluses in other budget categories (e.g., services,
supplies, or capital outlay) without prior approval from the City Council.



The City Manager and Finance Director, after meeting with all City departments, will present a
balanced budget for adoption to the Mayor and City Council in May of each year. This document will
serve as a working tool for the City Council in developing their operating budget. Consistent with
Utah Code § 10-6-111, a tentative budget will be prepared and ﬁled with the City’s elected officials
on or before the ﬁrst regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body in May of the current
period. The tentative budget will be reviewed and discussed in Council meetings throughout May
and June. A public hearing will be held prior to the adoption of the ﬁnal budget.




                                                                                          5|Pa ge
Citizen participation and comment is encouraged. Consistent with Utah Code § 10-6-118, the City
Council will adopt a ﬁnal budget before June 30 of each ﬁscal period, or, in the case of a property
tax increase, before September 1st of the year for which a property tax increase is proposed. The
City Council will adopt its certiﬁed property tax rate on the same date as the ﬁnal budget is
adopted.


Capital Asset Management
Purpose:

Holladay recognizes the impact capital asset management policies and projects have on the
quality of local government services, the community's economic vitality, and the overall quality of
life for citizens. Capital asset management policy encouraging optimal decision-making. The
policies will develop and maintain a capital improvement plan which includes realistic project
timing, scope, and operating budget impacts.



Policies:

The City of Holladay will develop and maintain a Capital Improvement Plan which includes realistic
project timing, scope, and operating budget impacts.



Appropriations for capital projects are for the period of construction or acquisition, and do not
lapse at the end of the ﬁscal year. Funds remaining in the project budget after its completion may
be appropriated for other capital projects.



Maintaining appropriate funding for maintenance is of upmost importance. Deferring maintenance
or asset replacement has the potential to reduce a government’s ability to provide services and/or
threaten public health, safety and overall quality of life. In addition, as the physical condition of an
asset declines, deferring maintenance and/or replacement may increase long-term costs and
liabilities.



Department managers/heads shall exercise supervision of all inventories of tangible City property
within the control of or assigned to their departments, including ensuring all City assets are
safeguarded and kept in good working condition. All city property located in warehouse(s) or
storage areas shall be inventoried annually, and accountability for the property shall reside with the
respective department head.




                                                                                              6|Pa ge
Long-Term Financial Planning
Purpose:

Holladay's long-term ﬁnancial planning policies assist the city with providing stable tax and service
levels for the community over a multi-year period. The policies help uncover minor problems which
could require drastic action later if left unresolved. These policies signal Holladay's commitment to
sound ﬁnancial management and willingness to control spending.



Policies:

Each year, staff shall develop a forecast of operating expenditures and revenue for the next ﬁve
years. The presentation and discussion of the forecast and resulting long-term ﬁnancial plan will be
an integral part of the annual budget process. Holladay will address imbalances in future revenues
and expenditures in establishing property tax rates.


Debt
Purpose:

Holladay's debt policies ensure debt is used wisely, and that future ﬁnancial ﬂexibility remains
relatively unconstrained. Criteria for the issuance of debt obligations ensure acceptable levels of
indebtedness are maintained. Debt policy shows investors and rating agencies that Holladay is
committed to sound ﬁnancial management, providing consistency and continuity in public policy
development.



Policies:

The City of Holladay may use debt to help distribute the payments for a capital asset over its useful
life so that beneﬁts more closely match costs. The City may also use pay-as-you-go ﬁnancing, in
that it helps to keep the City’s debt burden down. As there are merits to both methods of ﬁnancing,
Holladay may use a combination of debt and pay-as-you-go to ﬁnance capital assets.



Using long-term debt for operations is discouraged. Issuing debt with a longer amortization period
than the life of the asset it is ﬁnancing is prohibited.



Debt service as a percent of general expenditures of the General Fund will not exceed ﬁfteen
percent. This policy excludes general obligation debt, as general obligation debt is typically
supported by its own dedicated revenue source. Capitalization of interest, the practice of using
bond proceeds to pay the interest due on debt during the construction period of an asset, is

                                                                                           7|Pa ge
generally acceptable. Long-term ﬁnancing must comply with federal, state, and local legal
requirements.



The City of Holladay will consider debt issuance (rather than paying cash) subject to market
conditions. The City might use its debt capacity to acquire capital assets for a lower total cost when
construction costs are increasing or are very low. Holladay will engage the following outside
professionals to assist with bond sales, as bond sales are not a routine activity for most local
governments:

   A. Financial Advisor

   B. Bond Counsel

   C. Underwriter

   D. Paying Agent/Registrar

Bond proceeds will be invested in accordance with the City’s general investment policy. Staff must
take steps to minimize arbitrage liability on bond proceeds in order to avoid penalties. Refunding
bonds will be considered when there is an interest rate savings, a change in anticipated revenues,
or when the City Council desires a change in the provisions of a bond covenant.



Holladay shall comply with all ongoing disclosure conditions and shall ﬁle such required
documents in a timely manner. Interfund loans are contemplated for short-term use only. Any
transfers between funds where reimbursement is not expected within one ﬁscal year shall not be
recorded as interfund borrowings; they shall be recorded as interfund operating transfers.


Accounting, Auditing, and Financial Reporting
Purpose:

Accounting, auditing, and ﬁnancial reporting policy sets the tone for how Holladay accounts for its
ﬁnancial resources and its accountability to publicly available ﬁnancial information. The policies
satisfy external ﬁnancial reporting requirements while meeting Holladay's managerial needs.



Policies:

The City of Holladay has established an Audit Committee to serve as a practical means for the City
to provide independent review and oversight of the government’s ﬁnancial reporting processes,
framework of internal control, and independent auditors. The Audit Committee shall report to the
City Council at least annually.


                                                                                           8|Pa ge
Accounting records will be maintained in accordance with state and federal law and regulations.
Holladay adopts the Government Finance Officers Association recommendation that governments
use a multi-year audit contract for a period of no less than ﬁve years. Annual ﬁnancial reporting in
compliance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) is required.



Monthly revenue and expenditure reports for each fund shall be presented to the City Council. A
listing of checks issued shall be supplied to the Mayor monthly. The City will strive for transparency
and shall comply with all state records transparency requirements.



Capital assets are deﬁned as assets costing at least $5,000 with an expected useful life in excess of
one year. Sensitive non-capitalized items such as computers shall be inventoried and controlled.


Internal Control and Risk Management
Purpose:

Holladay's internal control and risk management policies protect assets to ensure service
continuity, maintain a safe work and service environment, and efficiency of risk management
activities.



Policies:

The City of Holladay should work closely with its insurer to accomplish goals stated above and to
minimize the cost of risk management activities. The City shall designate a Risk Manager and hold
quarterly meetings to review insurance claims and reported incidents.



Employees will be provided with the official City of Holladay Employee Handbook regarding
employment, and shall ﬁle an acknowledgment of receipt and understanding of the manual with
the Human Resources department. City employees and council members are required to report
conﬂicts of interest and to refrain from participating in or deliberating on any matters regarding
such interest. Sexual harassment training shall be conducted for all employees.



Holladay shall appoint an Emergency Management Coordinator who is responsible for maintaining
the City’s Emergency Management Plan. Holladay staff will participate in regional and statewide
safety exercises in coordination with area police and ﬁre.


                                                                                            9|Pa ge
Internal Controls shall be developed to separate duties, provide security over assets and records,
ensure periodic reconciliation and veriﬁcation, and ensure proper authorization.


Procurement
Purpose:

The City of Holladay will purchase goods and services in a manner that ensures all such purchases
are made fairly, equitably, efficiently, and economically and in the best interest of its residents.
(Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)



Policies:

This chapter applies to agreements for the procurement of supplies, services and construction
entered into by the City. This chapter applies to every expenditure of public funds by the City for
public purchasing, irrespective of the source of the funds. Any expenditure involving Federal funds
shall comply with applicable Federal law and regulations. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
City from complying with the terms and conditions of any grant, gift or bequest that is otherwise
consistent with law.



The City may take any action with respect to purchasing, bidding and contracting that is in the best
interest of the City, including rejecting any bid from a bidder in an adverse position to the City in the
present, pending or threatened litigation. The City may also reject a nonresponsive bid, and may
reject bids when the City's interest will be served, unless this rejection would be contrary to existing
law or be considered arbitrary. Finally, the Holladay may waive or modify requirements within a
particular bid process when it is in the best interest of the City, and when it is consistent with
mandatory applicable legal requirements and fair and equitable practices. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-
2016)



The City Manager may act as the Purchasing Agent. The City Manager may delegate authority to
purchase certain supplies, services or construction items to other City officials, if the delegation is
necessary for the effective procurement of those items. The City Manager may designate a
Purchasing Agent whose duties include procurement, soliciting bids and proposals, advising City
departments regarding procurements, maintaining a bidders' list and vendor ﬁles, as well as
records needed for purchasing. Responsibility rests with employees who purchase goods and
services, department directors, and the City Manager.




                                                                                             10 | P a g e
The purchasing agent or any department or division may prepare, ﬁle or amend speciﬁcations,
requisitions or quantity estimates for supplies and services.



Additional Procurement Policy can be found in Chapter 2.11 of the Holladay City Code.


Cash Receipting and Deposit
Purpose:

Cash receipting and deposit policy establishes a uniform control design for all departments of
Holladay that receive cash.



Policies:

The City of Holladay has established cash receipting and deposit policies to ensure all cash
received is handled transparently and appropriately. Guidelines have been set for the handling of
checks as well. Departments handling cash are required to track and conﬁrm all cash and check
amounts received and deposited.



When the city receives a check, it will ﬁrst conﬁrm the amounts. Third party checks, illegible
checks, checks over 180 days old, and checks in a foreign currency will not be accepted. Should
any check be suspicious, the bank will be contacted to verify its authenticity. All business licenses
or building permits will have the permit/business number on the check. All deposits will be
recorded into ﬁnancial system software.



In compliance with Utah State Law, receipts will be collected daily and deposited at the bank every
three days. All tracking of cash deposits and receipts will be conducted by the City staff, in a multi-
stage system which distributes responsibility to multiple staff members to support separation of
duties, transparency, and accuracy.


Investment
Purpose:

Establish an effective delineation of responsibilities and internal controls for the safekeeping and
investment of the City of Holladay monies. Investments shall be made with the judgment and care,
which persons of prudence, discretion, and intelligence exercise in the management of their own
affairs, not for speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their capital as
well as the probable income to be derived.


                                                                                            11 | P a g e
Policies:

All funds will be invested in accordance with the most recent revision of the Utah Money
Management Act. The primary objectives of investment activities in order of priority shall be safety,
liquidity, and yield:
             • Safety: Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the investment program.
                 Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation
                 of capital in the overall portfolio.
             • Liquidity: The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid to meet all
                 operating requirements that may be reasonably anticipated. This is accomplished
                 by structuring the portfolio so that securities mature concurrent with cash needs to
                 meet anticipated demands.
             • Yield: Return on investment is of secondary importance compared to safety and
                 liquidity objectives described above.


Credit Card Payment
Purpose:


The purpose of this policy is to deﬁne the guidelines for accepting and processing credit cards and
storing personal cardholder information. The policy will help ensure that cardholder information
supplied to the City of Holladay is secure and protected.


Policies:


This policy applies to all City of Holladay employees receipting credit card transactions. The policy
pertains to all departments that process, transmit, or handle cardholder information. The
cardholder information may be in a physical or electronic format. These policies ensure all credit
card information provided to the city is kept safe.


The City of Holladay will accept credit cards for a speciﬁed list of transactions, except those that
are prohibited by law. The City will not give cash advances on credit cards, nor will it accept partial
payments with credit cards. If a credit card is used, the amount due must be paid in full. Credit
cards can be used to pay off the amount of a returned check. Cards must be signed by the person
named on the face of the card. In the case of corporate/company cards, the City can accept
appropriate corporate identiﬁcation, such as a photo ID in the company name or similar
identiﬁcation for signees. Credit card payments will not be accepted over the phone or by mail due
to high cost and high risk. Certain credit cards may not be accepted depending on the platform.



Refund requests are submitted and reviewed individually by the City Finance Director to determine
refund eligibility. Partial or full refunds may be determined appropriate for room or facility rental

                                                                                            12 | P a g e
deposit returns, canceled permit applications, or over-payment. Valid refunds will be credited to
the credit card account used for the initial transaction.


All employees that process, transmit, or handle cardholder information are required to read the
policy and will adhere to its requirements. Department supervisors are responsible for providing
this policy to its card handling employees and providing training on the use of devices and security
of credit cards and related physical cardholder data.



If the City becomes aware that a customer's credit card number or card processing device has
been compromised, the City will notify individuals involved immediately. The City will contact the
City’s merchant bank, law enforcement and other involved associations as necessary to remediate
the loss of important information.


City Issued Credit Cards
Purpose:

This credit card policy outlines the proper use and management of city-issued credit cards to
ensure accountability, transparency, and compliance. It establishes guidelines for authorized
expenditures, approval processes, and documentation requirements to prevent misuse and
maintain ﬁnancial integrity.

Policies:

Employees must complete the Credit Card Acceptance Agreement, acknowledging they have read
and understand the City’s credit card policies and procedures. Cardholders are responsible for
securing their credit card, using it only for authorized business purchases, and maintaining proper
documentation, such as receipts, for all transactions. Unauthorized purchases or misuse of the
card may result in severe consequences, including termination of employment.



Approved purchases may include office supplies, vehicle maintenance supplies, and certain travel
expenditures, and prohibited purchases would include items like personal items, alcohol, gift
cards, and capital equipment. The Finance Director is responsible for issuing cards, reviewing
transactions for compliance, and handling payments and reconciliations. Cardholders must submit
receipts and warrant requests for each transaction by the end of the statement period, and any
disputes on transactions must be identiﬁed within 60 days.



Upon termination of employment, the cardholder’s supervisor must collect the credit card and
receipts and notify the Finance Director to close the account. In the case of a lost or stolen card,


                                                                                           13 | P a g e
the employee must immediately report it to the Finance Director. Misuse of the credit card or failure
to comply with the policy can result in personal liability for unauthorized charges and potential
disciplinary actions, including termination.




                                                                                         14 | P a g e
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2025-06

         A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT WITH SALT LAKE
                          COUNTY FOR ELECTION SERVICES

       WHEREAS, the City of Holladay will hold elections in 2025 for some City elected officers;
and

        WHEREAS, the City Recorder has recommended that the municipal election be conducted
by election officials of Salt Lake County (“the County”) and that such elections be conducted as
set forth in the attached Interlocal Agreement; and

        WHEREAS, the County has the expertise and election equipment to provide such services
at a cost equal to or less than the City may be able to conduct the election; and

       WHEREAS, the County has proposed an Interlocal Agreement to provide said election
services;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

        Section 1. Approval. The City Council of the City of Holladay hereby approves that
certain Interlocal Agreement, attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.
The Mayor of the City is hereby authorized to execute the Agreement for and in behalf of the
City.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.

             PASSED AND APPROVED this ___ day of April, 2025.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Robert Dahle, Mayor
                                                   County Contract No. &.
                                                   District Attorney Log No. 25CIV000143

                     INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                                         between
                                  SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                           and
                                    HOLLADAY CITY

                                 For Municipal Election

       This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (this “Agreement”) is entered into by and
between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah, on
behalf of its County Clerk’s Office, Election’s Division (the “County”); and HOLLADAY
CITY, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (the “City”). The County and the City
may each be referred to herein as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties.”

                                     R E C I T A L S:

       A.     The County and the City are “public agencies” as defined by the Utah
Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE §§ 11-13-101 to -608 (the “Interlocal Act”), and
as such, are authorized to enter into agreements to act jointly and cooperatively in a
manner that will enable them to make the most efficient use of their resources and
powers.

      B.    Utah Code § 20A-5-400.1 permits the County to enter into interlocal
agreements with local municipalities to conduct their elections.

       C.      The County desires to provide the services of its Clerk’s Office, Elections
Division, to the City for the purpose of assisting the City in conducting the City’s 2025
primary and general municipal elections.

       D.     The City desires to engage the County for such services.

                                   A G R E E M E N T:

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual representations, warranties,
covenants and agreements contained herein, the sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the Parties represent and agree as follows:

                         ARTICLE 1 — ELECTION SERVICES

        1.1. Scope of Work. The services to be provided by the County shall be as set
forth in the Scope of Work, attached hereto and incorporated by reference as Exhibit
“A.” Generally, the County shall perform the listed election functions as set forth in
Exhibit “A” and as needed to ensure implementation of the City’s 2025 primary and
general municipal elections, and shall furnish all materials, labor and equipment to

                                             1
complete the requirements and conditions of this Agreement.

        1.2. Cost. The City shall pay the County the actual cost of conducting its
election. A good faith range of costs of such services (as well as any amount of pre-
payment required by the County) shall be provided in Exhibit “B,” and will be attached
hereto and incorporated by reference. At the conclusion of the elections, the County
shall provide the City with a final invoice in writing based on its actual expenses, and the
City shall pay the County within thirty days of receiving the invoice. The invoice shall
contain a summary of the overall costs of the election and shall provide the amount
billed to the City for participating in the elections. In the case of a vote recount, election
system audit, election contest, or similar event arising out of the City’s election, the City
shall pay the County’s actual costs of responding to such events, as set forth in the final
invoice. The City acknowledges that the final invoice amount for these additional
services may cause the total cost to the City to exceed the good faith range given to the
City by the County.

        1.3. Legal Requirements. The County and the City understand and agree that
the City’s 2025 primary and general municipal elections are the City’s elections. The
City shall be responsible for compliance with all legal requirements for these elections.
The City agrees to translate ballot issues, if any, into Spanish. The County will provide
the remaining Spanish translations for the ballot and other election materials as required
by law. The County agrees to work with the City in complying with all legal requirements
for the conduct of these elections and conduct these elections pursuant to the direction
of the City, except as provided in this Agreement and Exhibit “A.” The County agrees to
disclose and maintain election results through its website merely as a courtesy and
convenience to the City. The City, and not the County, is responsible to resolve any and
all election questions, problems, and legal issues that are within the City’s statutory
authority.

       1.4.   Rank Choice Voting.

               (a)    The County and the City understand and agree that if the County
       provides services or resources to conduct an instant runoff voting election as
       described in sections 20A-4-603 and -604, UTAH CODE (2024) (“Rank Choice
       Voting”), the actual cost of administering such an election will be added to the
       City’s invoice.

             (b)    If the City decides to hold a Rank Choice Voting election, then, in
       accordance with Utah Code § 20A-4-602(3)(a), it shall provide the Lt. Governor
       and the County with notice of its intent to use Rank Choice Voting as its selected
       method of voting, no later than April 30, 2025.

              (c)   The County reserves the right to refuse to conduct a Rank Choice
       Voting contest with more than 10 candidates. The City acknowledges that, if the
       County agrees to conduct a Rank Choice Voting contest where more than 10
       candidates appear on the ballot, then voters may only rank up to 10 candidates.
       The City hereby assumes full risk and liability for, and agrees to indemnify and

                                              2
hold harmless the County, its agents, officers and employees from and against,
any and all actions, claims, lawsuits, contests, controversies, challenges,
proceedings, liability, damages, losses and expenses (including attorney’s fees
and costs) arising out of or resulting from the City’s decision to use Rank Choice
Voting in a race involving more than 10 candidates. The County’s exercise of
such a right shall be effective immediately upon written notice to the City and
shall not be construed as a breach of, or an event of default under, this
Agreement, and said exercise shall be without any liability of, or penalty to, the
County.

1.5.   Independent Contractor.

       (a)     Because the County is consolidating election functions in order to
conduct multiple, simultaneous elections on August 12, 2025, and on November
4, 2025, certain decisions by the County referenced in Exhibit “A” may not be
subject to review by the City. It is therefore understood by the parties that the
County will act as an independent contractor with regard to its decisions
regarding resources, procedures and policies based upon providing a consistent
type, scope and level of service to all participating jurisdictions made for the
benefit of the whole as set forth in Exhibit “A.”

        (b)    The County, as part of the consideration herein, shall comply with
all applicable federal, state and county laws governing elections. The City
agrees that the direction it gives the County under Utah Code § 20A-5-
400.1(2)(a) and this Agreement shall likewise be in strict compliance with all such
applicable laws. The County shall be under no obligation to comply with any
direction from the City that is not demonstrably consistent with all applicable
federal, state and county laws governing elections.

            ARTICLE 2 —COVENANTS AND AGREEMENTS

2.1.   Indemnification and Liability.

        (a)      Governmental Immunity. Both Parties are governmental entities
under the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, UTAH CODE §§ 63G-7-101 to -904
(the “Immunity Act”). Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any
rights, statutory limitations on liability, or defenses applicable to the City or the
County under the Governmental Immunity Act or common law. Each Party shall
retain liability and responsibility for the acts and omissions of their representative
officers. In no event shall this Agreement be construed to establish a
partnership, joint venture or other similar relationship between the parties and
nothing contained herein shall authorize either Party to act as an agent for the
other. Each of the parties hereto assumes full responsibility for the negligent
operations, acts and omissions of its own employees, agents and contractors. It
is not the intent of the parties to incur by Agreement any liability for the negligent
operations, acts, or omissions of the other Party or its agents, employees, or
contractors.

                                        3
              (b)    Indemnification. Subject to the provisions of the Governmental
      Immunity Act, the City agrees to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the
      County, its agents, officers and employees from and against any and all actions,
      claims, lawsuits, contests, controversies, challenges, proceedings, liability,
      damages, losses and expenses, however allegedly caused, resulting directly or
      indirectly from, or arising out of: a) the City’s breach of this Agreement; b) any
      negligent or wrongful act, error or omission of the City, its officers, agents and
      employees in the performance of this Agreement; or c) the City’s actions,
      decisions or directions regarding election questions, problems, or legal issues.
      The City agrees that its duty to indemnify the County under this Agreement
      includes all attorney fees, litigation and court costs, expert witness fees, and any
      sums expended by or assessed against the County for the defense of any claim
      or to satisfy any settlement, arbitration award, or verdict paid or incurred on
      behalf of the County. The City further agrees that its indemnification obligations
      in this section will survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

              (c)   Insurance. Both parties to this Agreement shall maintain insurance
      or self-insurance coverage sufficient to meet their obligations hereunder and
      consistent with applicable law.

       2.2. Election Records. The County shall be steward of records generated by
The County such as, but not limited to, ballots, envelopes, affidavits, and cure
documents, consistent with the Government Records Access and Management Act,
UTAH CODE §§ 63G-2-101 to -901 (2024), and all other relevant local, state and federal
laws. The City shall maintain and keep control of all other records created pursuant to
this Agreement and from the elections relevant to this Agreement. The City shall
respond to all public record requests related to this Agreement and the underlying
elections and shall retain its election records consistent with the Government Records
Access and Management Act, UTAH CODE §§ 63G-2-101 to -901 (2024), and all other
relevant local, state and federal laws.

                          ARTICLE 3 — MISCELLANEOUS

       3.1. Interlocal Cooperation Act. For the purpose of satisfying specific
requirements of the Interlocal Act, the Parties agree as follows:

            (a)   This Agreement shall be approved by each Party pursuant to Utah
      Code § 11-13-202.5.

             (b)   This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and
      compliance with applicable law by duly authorized attorneys on behalf of each
      Party pursuant to and in accordance with Utah Code § 11-13-202.5.

            (c)    A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed
      immediately with the keeper of records of each Party pursuant to Utah Code §
      11-13-209.
                                            4
             (d)    Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall
      be responsible for its own costs of any action taken pursuant to this Agreement,
      and for any financing of such costs.

             (e)    No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement.

              (f)    No real or personal property shall be acquired jointly by the Parties
      as a result of this Agreement. To the extent a Party acquires, holds, or disposes
      of any real or personal property for use in the joint or cooperative undertaking
      contemplated by this Agreement, such Party shall do so in the same manner that
      it deals with other property of such Party.

             (g)    County and City Representatives.

                   (i)    The County designates the County Clerk as the County’s
             representative to assist in the administrative management of this
             Agreement and to coordinate the performance of the services under this
             Agreement.

                    (ii)   The City designates Stephanie Carlson, its city recorder, as
             the City’s representative in its performance of this Agreement. The City’s
             representative shall have the responsibility of working with the County to
             coordinate the performance of its obligations under this Agreement.

      County Contact Information
      Tom Reese                                 Ann Stoddard
      Elections Director                        Admin/Fiscal Manager
      treese@saltlakecounty.gov                 astoddard@saltlakecounty.gov
      (385) 468-7425

      City Contact information
      Stephanie Carlson
      City Recorder
      SCarlson@cityofholladay.com
      (801) 527-2454

      3.2. Term of Agreement. This Agreement shall take effect immediately upon
the approval of this Agreement by both Parties as provided in Utah Code § 11-13-202.5
and shall expire on February 28, 2026.

       3.3. Termination. This Agreement may be terminated (with or without cause)
by the County upon at least thirty-days prior written notice to the City. This Agreement
may be terminated (with or without cause) by the City any time before April 30, 2025,
upon written notice to the County. Upon any such termination, the following shall occur:



                                            5
              (a)   the County shall submit to the City an itemized statement for
       services rendered under this Agreement up to the time of termination and based
       upon the dollar amounts for materials, equipment and services set forth herein;

             (b)   the City shall pay the County on the basis of the actual services
       performed according to the terms of this Agreement;

              (c)     each party shall retain ownership of any property it owned prior to
       the date of this Agreement and the City shall own any property it created or
       acquired pursuant to this Agreement; and

              (d)    if any pre-payment is required by the County and has been paid by
       the City, then such amount shall be retained by the County as a non-refundable
       administrative fee to cover the County’s actual costs of preparing for the City’s
       elections.

        3.4. Non-Funding Clause. Pursuant to Utah State law, the County
appropriations lapse at the end of each fiscal year. County appropriations may also be
altered at any time during the fiscal year. Consequently, if funds are not appropriated
for a succeeding fiscal year to fund performance by the County under the Agreement, or
if appropriations are withdrawn or otherwise altered, the Agreement shall terminate,
effective upon written notice. Said termination shall not be construed as a breach of this
Agreement or any event of default under this Agreement and said termination shall be
without penalty, whatsoever, and no right of action for damages or other relief shall
accrue to the benefit of the City, its successors, or its assigns, as to this Agreement, or
any portion thereof.

        3.5. Force Majeure. Neither Party will be considered in breach of this
Agreement to the extent that performance of their respective obligations is prevented by
an Event of Force Majeure that arises after this Agreement becomes effective. “Event
of Force Majeure” means an event beyond the control of the County or the City that
prevents a Party from complying with any of its obligations under this Agreement,
including but not limited to: a) an act of God (such as, but not limited to, fires,
explosions, earthquakes, drought, tidal waves and floods); b) war, acts or threats of
terrorism, invasion, or embargo; or c) riots, strikes, vandalism or other civil unrest. If an
Event of Force Majeure persists for a period in excess of sixty days, the County may
terminate this Agreement without liability or penalty, effective upon written notice to the
City.

      3.6. Notices. All notices required under this Agreement shall be made in writing
and shall be sent via email.

        3.7. Ethical Standards. The City represents that it has not: a) provided an
illegal gift to any County officer or employee, or former County officer or employee, or to
any relative or business entity of a County officer or employee, or relative or business
entity of a former County officer or employee; b) retained any person to solicit or secure

                                              6
this contract upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage,
brokerage or contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial
agencies established for the purpose of securing business; c) breached any of the
ethical standards set forth in Utah Code § 17-16a-4 or Salt Lake County Code of
Ordinances § 2.07; or d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promises that it will not
knowingly influence, any County officer or employee or former County officer or
employee to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute or Salt Lake
County ordinance.

        3.8. Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the documents referenced herein,
if any, constitute the entire Agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof, and no statements, promises, or inducements made by either Party, or
agents for either Party, that are not contained in this written Agreement shall be binding
or valid.

       3.9. Amendment. This Agreement may be amended, changed, modified or
altered only by an instrument in writing signed by the Parties.

       3.10. Time. The Parties agree that time is of the essence in the performance of
this Agreement. The time set forth for performance in this Agreement shall be strictly
followed and any default in performance according to the times required shall be a
breach of this Agreement and shall be just cause for immediate termination by the
County of this Agreement and pursuit of any remedy allowed by this Agreement and by
law.

       3.11. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws
of the State of Utah both as to interpretation and performance. All actions including but
not limited to court proceedings, administrative proceedings, arbitration and mediation
proceedings, shall be commenced, maintained, adjudicated and resolved within Salt
Lake County.

       3.12. No Obligations to Third Parties. The Parties agree that the City’s
obligations under this Agreement are solely to the County and that the County’s
obligations under this Agreement are solely to the City. The Parties do not intend to
confer any rights to third parties.

       3.13. Agency. No officer, employee, or agent of the City or the County is
intended to be an officer, employee, or agent of the other Party. None of the benefits
provided by each Party to its employees including, but not limited to, workers’
compensation insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance, are available
to the officers, employees, or agents of the other Party. The City and the County will
each be solely and entirely responsible for its acts and for the acts of its officers,
employees, or agents during the performance of this Agreement.

       3.14. No Waiver. The failure of either Party at any time to require performance
of any provision or to resort to any remedy provided under this Agreement will in no way

                                            7
affect the right of that Party to require performance or to resort to a remedy at any time
thereafter. Additionally, the waiver of any breach of this Agreement by either Party will
not constitute a waiver as to any future breach.

      3.15. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is found to be illegal or
unenforceable in a judicial proceeding, such provision will be deemed inoperative and
severable, and, provided that the fundamental terms and conditions of this Agreement
remain legal and enforceable, the remainder of this Agreement shall remain operative
and binding on the Parties.

       3.16. Exhibits and Recitals. The Recitals set forth above and all exhibits to this
Agreement are incorporated herein to the same extent as if such items were set forth
herein in their entirety within the body of this Agreement.

        3.17. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and all so
executed will constitute one agreement binding on all the Parties, it being understood
that all Parties need not sign the same counterpart. Further, executed copies of this
Agreement delivered by facsimile or email will be deemed an original signed copy of this
Agreement.




                           [SIGNATURE PAGE TO FOLLOW]




                                             8
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties execute this Agreement as of the latest
date indicated below.
                                            SALT LAKE COUNTY:


                                             _____________________________
                                            Mayor or Designee
                                            Date: _________________________
Recommended for Approval:

By: ___________________________
Salt Lake County Clerk
Date: __________________________

Reviewed as to Form:
                Adam Miller
                2025.03.07
By: ___________________________
                09:24:31 -07'00'
Deputy District Attorney
Date: __________________________


                                            HOLLADAY CITY:


                                            By: ___________________________

                                            Name: ________________________

                                            Title:__________________________

                                            Date: _________________________
Attest:

______________________________
City Recorder
Date: __________________________

Reviewed as to Form:

By: ___________________________
City Attorney
Date: __________________________



                                        9
                                                   Exhibit ‘A’
                                            2025 Municipal Elections
                                                 Scope of Work


The Municipality agrees to the consolidation of all elections administrative functions to ensure the successful
conduct of multiple and simultaneous municipal elections, local district elections, and county elections. The
County agrees to conduct vote by mail/consolidated polls (vote center) elections for the Municipality.

In a consolidated election, decisions made by the County regarding resources, procedures and policies are
based upon providing the same scope and level of service to all the participating jurisdictions and the
Municipality recognizes ťēÍťϙŜŪèēϙîôèĖŜĖĺĲŜϠϙıÍîôϙċĺŘϙťēôϙæôĲôƱťϙĺċϙťēôϙſēĺīôϠϙıÍƅϙĲĺťϙæôϙŜŪæĤôèťϙťĺϙŘôŽĖôſϙ
by the Municipality.

ôŘŽĖèôŜϙťēôϙĺŪĲťƅϙſĖīīϙŕôŘċĺŘıϙċĺŘϙťēôϙMunicipality include, but are not limited to:

   x   Ballot layout and design
   x   Ballot ordering, printing, and delivery
   x   Machine programming and testing
   x   Delivery of supplies and equipment
   x   Provision of all supplies
   x   Election vote centers/early vote locations
   x   Vote by Mail administration
   x   ŕîÍťĖĲČϙŜťÍťôϙÍĲîϙèĺŪĲťƅϙſôæŜĖťôŜ
   x   Tabulating, reporting, auditing, and preparing canvassing election results
   x   Conducting recounts as needed
   x   All notices and mailing required by laſ (except those required by Utah Code Ann. Ch. 11-14, Part 2 and
       §20A-9-203)
   x   "ĖŘôèťϙŕÍƅıôĲťϙĺċϙÍīīϙèĺŜťŜϙÍŜŜĺèĖÍťôîϙſĖťēϙťēôϙôīôèťĖĺĲŜ including but not limited to ŜĺċťſÍŘôϠϙ
       ēÍŘîſÍŘôϠ supplies, printing, postage, vote-centers, drayage, training, and ťôıŕĺŘÍŘƅϙŜťÍƯϙēĖŘôîϙťĺϙ
       facilitate elections
   x   Storage and maintenance of records as per the Utah State Code 20A-4-202-3b(i)(b).
   x   Materials provides in English and Spanish ÍŜϙŕôŘϙϟϟϙϙôèťĖĺĲϙ͑͏͒ϙĺċϙťēôϙ«ĺťĖĲČϙĖČēťŜϙèťϠϙſĖťēϙ
       exception of translation of additional ballot initiatives.


The Municipality ſĖīīϙŕŘĺŽĖîôϙÍīīϙŽĺťôŘϙôîŪèÍťĖĺĲϙĺŪťŘôÍèēϙŘôīÍťôîϙťĺϙÍĲħϙēĺĖèôϙ«ĺťĖĲČϠϙĖċϙÍŕŕīĖèÍæīôϟ

The Municipality ſĖīīϙŕŘĺŽĖîôϙťēôϙĺŪĲťƅϙīôŘħϙſĖťēϙĖĲċĺŘıÍťĖĺĲϠϙîôèĖŜĖĺĲŜϠϙÍĲîϙŘôŜĺīŪťĖĺĲŜϙÍĲîϙſĖīīϙťÍħôϙ
appropriate actions required for the conduct of the elections in a timely manner.

ēôϙĺŪĲťƅϙſĖīīϙŕŘĺŽĖîôϙÍϙgood faith range for budgeting purposes (Exhibit ‘B’). Election costs are variable and
are based on the Municipality’s ĺƯĖèôŜϙŜèēôîŪīôîϙċĺŘϙôīôèťĖĺĲϠϙťēôϙMunicipality’s number of registered voters,
ťēôϙĲŪıæôŘϙĺċϙĤŪŘĖŜîĖèťĖĺĲŜϙĖĲŽĺīŽôîϠϙÍŜϙſôīīϙÍŜϙÍĲƅϙîĖŘôèťϙèĺŜťŜϙĖĲèŪŘŘôîϟ

ēôϙaŪĲĖèĖŕÍīĖťƅϙſĖīīϙæôϙĖĲŽĺĖèôîϙċĺŘϙĖťŜϙŕŘĺ-rata share of the actual costs of the elections. In the event of a
ťÍťôϙĺŘϙĺŪĲťƅϙŜŕôèĖÍīϙôīôèťĖĺĲϙæôĖĲČϙēôīîϙĖĲϙèĺĲĤŪĲèťĖĺĲϙſĖťēϙÍϙıŪĲĖèĖŕÍīϙôīôèťĖĺĲϠϙťēôϙŜèĺŕôϙĺċϙŜôŘŽĖèôŜϠϙ
associated coŜťŜϠϙÍĲîϙťēôϙıôťēĺîϙĺċϙèÍīèŪīÍťĖĲČϙťēĺŜôϙèĺŜťŜϙſĖīīϙŘôıÍĖĲϙŪĲèēÍĲČôîϟϙ
                                                   Exhibit B
                                              2025 Election Costs
                                                   Holladay
Below is the good faith range of estimates for the upcoming 2025 Municipal Elections for Holladay.
Assumptions for providing this estimate consist of the following:

    A. Active voters (as of 1/1/2025): 20,591
    B. Election for the offices below:
               Mayor
               Council District 1
               Council District 3

    C. Other participating entities: both Primary and General election costs will fluctuate based on the
       number of participating entities. The cost for each entity in each election will rise as other entities
       decline participation in that election due to cancellation of contests, etc. The estimates below are
       premised on three scenarios with varying levels of election participation.

Cost Estimate

 Description         Base Scenario                    High Participation                Low Participation
                     (all entities participating in   Scenario                          Scenario
                     primary)                         (~2/3 entities participating in   (~1/3 entities participating in
                                                      primary)                          primary)
 Primary             $17,040                          $23,942                           $81,878
 Election Cost
 General             $41,233                          $46,749                           $46,745
 Election Cost
 Election            $5,000                           $5,000                            $5,000
 Administration
 Fee
 Ranked Choice       [$26,250 / # of                  [$26,250 / # of                   [$26,250 / # of
 Software            participating entities]          participating entities]           participating entities]
 Charge
 (if applicable)


Ranked Choice Software License Charge

    x    The Ranked Choice Voting Software License Charge will be billed to any entity electing
         to use ranked choice voting (RCV) as a voting method, regardless of whether or not the
         election contests use that method in the general election.
    x    The final software license charge for entities electing to use RCV will be determined after
         May 1st, 2025.
    x    The software license charge will be calculated by taking the full software cost ($26,500)
         and dividing it equally by the number of entities that have elected to use RCV.
    x    The software license charge will be invoiced after May 1 st, 2025. Fee must be paid within
         30 days of the date of the invoice.
Fee Statements

  x   The Election Administration Fee (Admin Fee) will be billed after July 1st, 2025.
  x   All entities that wish to contract with Salt Lake County will pay the Admin Fee within 30
      days of the date of the invoice.
  x   The Admin Fee will be applied towards each entity’s billed amount for the 2025 election.
  x   If the Admin Fee exceeds the billed cost of the 2025 election, the excess amount will be
      applied towards the total election cost to reduce overall cost.
  x   Admin Fees will not be refunded.
  x   If a ballot measure appears on a general election ballot for a municipality or special
      district, that measure will be treated as a separate contest and will be billed to the
      municipality/district accordingly. A recount election will be addressed in the same
      manner.
  x   All billing will be based on actual costs.
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2025-07

         A RESOLUTION APPROVING ENTRY INTO AN INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT WITH
                SALT LAKE COUNTY FOR TRAFFIC SIGNAL INSTALLATION

       WHEREAS, the Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE ANN. §11-13-101 et. seq. (the
“Interlocal Cooperation Act”), provides that any two or more public agencies may enter into
agreements with one another for joint or cooperative action following the adoption of an
appropriate resolution by the governing body of each participating public agency; and

        WHEREAS, the City of Holladay and Salt Lake County are public agencies for purposes of
the Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to contract with the County for the installation of traffic signal
equipment at the intersection of Murray Holladay Blvd and Chanin Vista Drive (1925 East),
located within City boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay desires to enter into the interlocal
agreement with Salt Lake County for the installation of traffic signal equipment for the benefit of
the residents of the City of Holladay;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

        Section 1. Approval. The City Council of the City of Holladay hereby approves that
certain Interlocal Agreement, attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.
The Mayor of the City is hereby authorized to execute the Agreement for and in behalf of the
City.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.

             PASSED AND APPROVED this ___ day of April, 2025.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL


                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Robert Dahle, Mayor
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2025-08

         A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT WITH SALT LAKE
        COUNTY FOR TOURISM, RECREATION, CULTURAL, CONVENTION AND AIRPORT
                             FACILITIES TAX ACT FUNDS

       WHEREAS, the Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE ANN. §11-13-101 et. seq. (the
“Interlocal Cooperation Act”), provides that any two or more public agencies may enter into
agreements with one another for joint or cooperative action following the adoption of an
appropriate resolution by the governing body of each participating public agency; and

        WHEREAS, the City of Holladay and Salt Lake County are public agencies for purposes
of the Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

        WHEREAS, the County receives Tourism, Recreation, Cultural, Convention And Airport
Facilities Tax Act Funds (“TRCC Funds”) which may be used for the development, operation,
and maintenance of publicly owned recreation, cultural, or convention facilities; and

       WHEREAS, the City has requested TRCC Funds to help fund a theater consultant to
provide renovation design services for the Holladay City Hall Auditorium; and

       WHEREAS, the County has provisionally awarded grant funding to the City for the
requested purposes; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay desires to enter into the interlocal
agreement with Salt Lake County for TRCC Funds for the benefit, peace, and comfort of Salt
Lake County and City of Holladay residents;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

        Section 1. Approval. The City Council of the City of Holladay hereby approves that
certain Interlocal Agreement, attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.
The Mayor of the City is hereby authorized to execute the Agreement for and in behalf of the
City.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.
       Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.

              PASSED AND APPROVED this ___ day of April, 2025.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL


                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Robert Dahle, Mayor


[SEAL]                                           VOTING:
                                                 Ty Brewer                 Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Matt Durham               Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Paul Fotheringham         Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Drew Quinn                Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Emily Gray                Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Robert Dahle              Yea      Nay ___

ATTEST:

_____________________________
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
City Recorder



         DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this __ day of April, 2025.

         RECORDED this __ day of April, 2025.
                                                 County Contract No. ____________________
                                                                  DA Log No. 25CIV000389

                      INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                                             between
                                    SALT LAKE COUNTY
                          for its Department of Community Services
                                               and
                                    CITY OF HOLLADAY

       THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”) is entered
into by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah,
for and on behalf of its Department of Community Services ("County") and the
CITY OF HOLLADAY, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (“City”). County and
City may each be referred to herein as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties.”

                                        R E C I T A L S:

        A.     The County is a county existing pursuant to Article XI, Section 1 of the Utah
Constitution, and the Department of Community Services is a department of the County pursuant
to Salt Lake County Ordinances, § 2.06B.020.

       B.      The County receives funds (“TRCC Funds”) pursuant to the Tourism, Recreation,
Cultural, Convention, and Airport Facilities Tax Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 59-12-601 et seq. (the
“TRCC Act”). The TRCC Act provides that TRCC Funds may be used, among other things, for
the development, operation, and maintenance of publicly owned or operated recreation, cultural,
or convention facilities.

        C.    City is a municipality and a political subdivision of the State of Utah as provided
for in Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-1-201 & 202, 1953 as amended.

       D.       City has requested TRCC Funds from the County to help fund the project
described in its City of Holladay application attached hereto as EXHIBIT A. More specifically,
City requested TRCC Funds to help fund a theater consultant to provide renovation design
services (the “Project”). The County Council appropriated TRCC Funds for this purpose in the
Salt Lake County Budget.

        E.      The Parties are “public agencies” as defined by the Utah Interlocal Cooperation
Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 11-13-101 et seq. (the “Interlocal Cooperation Act”), and, as such, are
authorized by the Interlocal Cooperation Act to enter into this Agreement to act jointly and
cooperatively in a manner that will enable them to make the most efficient use of their resources
and powers. Additionally, Section 11-13-215 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act authorizes a
county, city, town, or other local political subdivision to share its tax and other revenues with
other counties, cities, towns, local political subdivisions, or the state.
       F.      The Parties have determined that it is mutually advantageous to enter into this
Agreement and believe that the County’s assistance under this Agreement will contribute to the
prosperity, moral well-being, peace, and comfort of Salt Lake County residents.

                                      A G R E E M E N T:

       NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and in compliance with and
pursuant to the terms hereof and the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Parties
hereby agree as follows:

1 . COUNTY’S CONTRIBUTION.

       A.      Contribution of TRCC Funds. County agrees to reimburse up to TWENTY
TWO THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($22,500.00) to City from its 2025 TRCC
Funds all on the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement.

2 . CITY’S OBLIGATIONS AND REPRESENTATIONS.

       A.      Acknowledgement. City acknowledges that the TRCC Funds provided to City
under this Agreement are County public funds received pursuant to the TRCC Act and Salt Lake
County Code of Ordinances §3.10.030, 3.10.040, and 3.10.051, and therefore must be used for
the development, operation, and maintenance of publicly owned or operated recreation, cultural,
or convention facilities.

       B.      Allowable Uses and Limitation on Use.

               (i)    City shall use the TRCC Funds provided under this Agreement solely to
       cover costs incurred by City to develop the Project as described in EXHIBIT A,
       (application) and EXHIBIT B, (project budget).

               (ii)     City shall not expend any TRCC Funds on: (a) fund-raising expenditures
       related to capital or endowment campaigns, grants or re-grants; (b) direct political
       lobbying, (c) bad debt expense, (d) non-deductible tax penalties, (e) operating expenses
       that are utilized in calculating federal unrelated business income tax; or (f) in any other
       manner that would be inconsistent with the use stated in Paragraphs 2A and 2B of this
       Agreement.

       C.      Project Completion Deadline. Recipient shall complete the project scope as
outlined in City’s TRCC Application hereto as EXHIBIT A by March 31,
2027. Any scope change for the project must be requested and approved by the TRCC advisory
board before the work is completed.

       D.      Match Requirement. If City’s TRCC Application attached hereto as EXHIBIT A
and/or budget attached as EXHIBIT B indicate that City will make a matching contribution
toward the purpose for which TRCC Funds will be used by City under this Agreement, City shall
make the matching contribution so indicated in the amount specified in City’s Application. If
City fails to make and expend such a matching contribution prior to March 31, 2027, the County
may require repayment of TRCC Funds from City for noncompliance with this provision.

        E.      Reimbursement Deadline. City shall furnish to County the TRCC Reimbursement
Form, which can be found at https://www.saltlakecounty.gov/community-services/trcc-support-
program/, together with such invoices or other supporting documentation as County may reasonably
require. All requests for reimbursement under this Agreement shall be made on or before June
30, 2027. Additionally, if it is later determined that City used any portion of the TRCC Funds for
anything other than for the purposes identified in Paragraph 2B above, City shall immediately
pay to the County an amount equal to the amount of TRCC Funds spent for purposes other than
those identified in Paragraph 2B.

       F.       Reporting Requirements. City shall submit to the County a completed copy of the
TRCC Project Status Report, which can be found at https://www.saltlakecounty.gov/community-
services/trcc-support-program/, detailing how the TRCC Funds were expended no later than
December 31, 2025; December 31, 2026; and June 30, 2027.

        G.     Recordkeeping. City agrees to maintain its books and records in such a way that
any TRCC Funds received from the County will be shown separately in the City’s books. City
shall maintain records adequate to identify the use of the TRCC Funds for the purposes specified
in this Agreement. City shall make its books and records available to the County at reasonable
times.

       H.      Public Funds and Public Monies:

               (i)     City agrees that the TRCC Funds are “public funds” and “public monies,”
       meaning monies, funds, and accounts, regardless of the source from which they are
       derived, that are owned, held, or administered by the State or any of its boards,
       commissions, institutions, departments, divisions, agencies, bureaus, laboratories, or
       similar instrumentalities, or any county, city, school district, political subdivision, or
       other public body. The terms also include monies, funds or accounts that have been
       transferred by any of the aforementioned public entities to a private contract provider for
       public programs or services. Said funds shall maintain the nature of “public funds” while
       in City’s possession.

               (ii)    City, as the recipient of “public funds” and “public monies” pursuant to
       this and other agreements related hereto, expressly agrees that it, its officers, and its
       employees are obligated to receive, keep safe, transfer, disburse and use these “public
       funds” and “public monies” as authorized by law and this Agreement for TRCC
       qualifying purposes in Salt Lake County. City understands that it, its officers, and its
       employees may be criminally liable under Utah Code Ann. § 76-8-402 for misuse of
       public funds or monies. City expressly agrees that the County may monitor the
       expenditure of TRCC Funds by City.

               (iii)   City agrees not to make TRCC Funds or proceeds from such funds
       available to any public officer or employee or in violation of the Public Officers’ and
       Employees’ Ethics Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 67-16-1, et seq. (1953, as amended).

       I.      Right to Verify and Audit. The County reserves the right to verify application
and evaluation information and to audit the use of TRCC Funds received by City under this
Agreement, and the accounting of such use. If the County requests an audit, City agrees to
cooperate fully with the County and its representatives in the performance of the audit.

         J.      Noncompliance. City agrees that the County may withhold TRCC Funds or other
funds or require repayment of TRCC Funds from City for noncompliance with this Agreement,
for failure to comply with directives regarding the use of public funds, or for misuse of public
funds or monies.

       K.      Representations.

               (i)    No Officer or Employee Interest. City represents and agrees that no
       officer or employee of the City has or shall have any pecuniary interest, direct or indirect,
       in this Agreement or the proceeds resulting from the performance of this Agreement.

                (ii)    Ethical Standards. City represents that it has not: (a) provided an illegal
       gift in connection with this Agreement to any County officer or employee, or former
       County officer or employee, or to any relative or business entity of a County officer or
       employee, or relative or business entity of a former County officer or employee; (b)
       retained any person to solicit or secure this Agreement upon an agreement or
       understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, other than bona
       fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies established for the purpose of securing
       business; (c) breached any of the ethical standards in connection with this Agreement set
       forth in State statute or Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances § 2.07; or (d) knowingly
       influenced, and hereby promises that it will not knowingly influence, in connection with
       this Agreement, any County officer or employee or former County officer or employee to
       breach any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute or Salt Lake County
       ordinances.

3 . GENERAL PROVISIONS:

        A.      Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the documents referenced herein, if any,
constitute the entire Agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and
no statements, promises, or inducements made by either Party, or agents for either Party, that are
not contained in this written Agreement shall be binding or valid; and this Agreement may not be
enlarged, modified or altered, except in writing, signed by the Parties.

       B.      Term of Agreement. This Agreement will become effective immediately upon
the completion of the following: (i) the approval of the Agreement by the governing bodies of
the County and City, including the adoption of any necessary resolutions or ordinances by the
County and City authorizing the execution of this Agreement by the appropriate person or
persons for the County and City, respectively, (ii) the execution of this Agreement by a duly
authorized official of each of the Parties, (iii) the submission of this Agreement to an attorney
for each Party that is authorized to represent said Party for review as to proper form and
compliance with applicable law, pursuant to Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, and the approval of each respective attorney, and (iv) the filing of a copy of this
Agreement with the keeper of records of each Party (the “Effective Date”). This Agreement
shall terminate upon City’s full expenditure of the TRCC Funds received under this Agreement
and upon City’s completion of the associated reporting requirements described in Paragraph 2E
above, unless terminated earlier as provided in Paragraphs 3H, 3I, and 3J below. However,
City’s obligations in Paragraphs 2F, 2G, 2H and 2I above and Paragraph 3F below shall survive
the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

      C.     Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

               (i)     This Agreement shall be authorized as provided in Section 11-13-202.5 of
       the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

              (ii)    This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with
       applicable law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each Party pursuant to and in
       accordance with Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

               (iii) A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed
       immediately with the keeper of records of each Party pursuant to Section 11-13-209 of
       the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

              (iv)   The term of this Agreement shall not exceed fifty (50) years pursuant to
       Section 11-13-216 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

              (v)     Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall be
       responsible for its own costs of any action done pursuant to this Agreement, and for any
       financing of such costs.

                (vi)   No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement and no
       facility or improvement will be jointly acquired, jointly owned, or jointly operated by the
       Parties under this Agreement.

               (vii) Pursuant to Section 11-13-207 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the
       County Mayor and City Mayor are hereby designated as the joint administrative board for
       all purposes of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

        D.      No Obligations to Third Parties. The Parties agree that City’s obligations under
this Agreement are solely to the County and that the County’s obligations under this Agreement
are solely to City. The Parties do not intend to confer any rights to third parties unless otherwise
expressly provided for under this Agreement.

       E.      Agency. No officer, employee, or agent of City or the County is intended to be an
officer, employee, or agent of the other Party. None of the benefits provided by each Party to its
employees including, but not limited to, workers’ compensation insurance, health insurance and
unemployment insurance, are available to the officers, employees, or agents of the other Party.
City and the County will each be solely and entirely responsible for its acts and for the acts of its
officers, employees, or agents during the performance of this Agreement.

       F.      Governmental Immunity, Liability, and Indemnification.

              (i)    Governmental Immunity. Both Parties are governmental entities under the
       Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-7-101 et seq. (the
       “Immunity Act”). Neither Party waives any defenses or limits of liability available under
       the Immunity Act and other applicable law. Both Parties maintain all privileges,
       immunities, and other rights granted by the Immunity Act and all other applicable law.

                (ii)   Liability and Indemnification. The County and City agree to be liable for
       their own negligent acts or omissions, or those of their authorized employees, officers,
       and agents while engaged in the performance of the obligations under this Agreement,
       and neither the County nor City will have any liability whatsoever for any negligent act
       or omission of the other Party, its employees, officers, or agents. However, City shall
       indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the County, its officers, employees and agents (the
       “Indemnified Parties”) from and against any and all actual or threatened claims, losses,
       damages, injuries, debts, and liabilities of, to, or by third parties, including demands for
       repayment or penalties, however allegedly caused, resulting directly or indirectly from, or
       arising out of (i) City’s breach of this Agreement; (ii) any acts or omissions of or by City,
       its agents, representatives, officers, employees, or subcontractors in connection with the
       performance of this Agreement; or (iii) City’s use of the TRCC Funds. City agrees that
       its duty to defend and indemnify the Indemnified Parties under this Agreement includes
       all attorney’s fees, litigation and court costs, expert witness fees, and any sums expended
       by or assessed against the County for the defense of any claim or to satisfy any
       settlement, arbitration award, debt, penalty, or verdict paid or incurred on behalf of the
       County. The Parties agree that the requirements of this Paragraph will survive the
       expiration or sooner termination of this Agreement.

       G.      Required Insurance Policies. Both Parties to this Agreement shall maintain
insurance or self-insurance coverage sufficient to meet their obligations hereunder and consistent
with applicable law.

       H.      Non-Funding Clause.

              (i)     The County has requested or intends to request an appropriation of TRCC
       Funds to be paid to City for the purposes set forth in this Agreement. If TRCC Funds are
       not appropriated and made available beyond December 31 of the county fiscal year in
       which this Agreement becomes effective, the County’s obligation to contribute TRCC
       Funds to City under this Agreement beyond that date will be null and void. This
       Agreement places no obligation on the County to contribute TRCC Funds to City in
       succeeding fiscal years. The County’s obligation to contribute TRCC Funds to City
under this Agreement will terminate and become null and void on the last day of the
county fiscal year for which funds were budgeted and appropriated, except as to those
portions of payments agreed upon for which funds are budgeted and appropriated. The
Parties agree that such termination of the County’s obligation under this Paragraph will
not be construed as a breach of this Agreement or as an event of default under this
Agreement, and that such termination of the County’s obligation under this Paragraph
will be without penalty and that no right of action for damages or other relief will accrue
to the benefit of City, its successors, or its assigns as to this Agreement, or any portion
thereof, which may terminate and become null and void.

        (ii)    If TRCC Funds are not appropriated and made available to fund
performance by the County under this Agreement, the County shall promptly notify City
of such non-funding and the termination of this Agreement. However, in no event, shall
the County notify City of such non-funding later than thirty (30) days following the
expiration of the county fiscal year for which TRCC Funds were last appropriated for
contribution to City under this Agreement.

I.     Termination.

        (i)     Event of Default. The occurrence of any one or more of the following
constitutes an “Event of Default” as such term is used herein:

               (a) Failure of City to comply with any of the terms, conditions, covenants,
       or provisions of this Agreement that is not fully cured by City on or before the
       expiration of a thirty (30)-day period commencing upon the County’s written
       notice to City of the occurrence thereof.

               (b) City no longer qualifies for receipt of TRCC Funds under the laws of
       the State of Utah or under Salt Lake County ordinances or policy.

              (c) The County’s determination to contribute TRCC Funds to City under
       this Agreement was based upon the submission of erroneous information, or the
       County reasonably determines that any representations made by City under this
       Agreement are untrue.

        (ii)    County’s Remedies in the Event of Default. Upon the occurrence of any
Event of Default, the County may, in its sole discretion, and in addition to all remedies
conferred upon the County by law or equity and other provisions of this Agreement,
pursue any one or more of the following remedies concurrently or successively, it being
the intent hereof that none of such remedies shall be to the exclusion of any other:

               (a) Withhold further contributions of TRCC Funds to City; and/or

             (b) Seek repayment of any TRCC Funds previously paid to City under this
       Agreement; and/or
                       (c) Terminate this Agreement.

               (iii) Termination Prior to Disbursement. The County may terminate this
       Agreement for convenience by providing thirty (30)-days’ written notice specifying the
       nature, extent, and effective date of the termination. However, the County may not
       terminate this agreement once the TRCC Funds have been provided to City and have
       been expended by City for the purposes set forth by this Agreement.

        J.      Force Majeure. Neither Party will be considered in breach of this Agreement to
the extent that performance of their respective obligations is prevented by an Event of Force
Majeure that arises after this Agreement becomes effective. “Event of Force Majeure” means an
event beyond the control of the County or City that prevents a Party from complying with any of
its obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to: (i) an act of God (such as, but
not limited to, fires, explosions, earthquakes, drought, tidal waves and floods); (ii) war, acts or
threats of terrorism, invasion, or embargo; or (iii) riots or strikes. If an Event of Force Majeure
persists for a period in excess of sixty (60) days, the County may terminate this Agreement
without liability or penalty, effective upon written notice to City.

        K.      No Waiver. The failure of either Party at any time to require performance of any
provision or to resort to any remedy provided under this Agreement will in no way affect the
right of that Party to require performance or to resort to a remedy at any time thereafter.
Additionally, the waiver of any breach of this Agreement by either Party will not constitute a
waiver as to any future breach.

        L.      Compliance with Laws. The Parties shall comply with all applicable statutes,
laws, rules, regulations, licenses, certificates and authorizations of any governmental body or
authority in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including, but not limited
to, those laws requiring access to persons with disabilities as well as the laws governing non-
discrimination against all protected groups and persons in admissions and hiring.

        M.      Records. Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all
other records pertinent to this Agreement and the TRCC Funds provided under this Agreement
must be kept readily available for review by the County from time to time upon the County’s
request. Such records must be retained and maintained for a minimum of three (3) years after the
acceptance of the final project status report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a
result of an audit, records must be retained until completion or resolution of any audit in process
or pending resolution. Such records may be subject to the Utah Government Records Access and
Management Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-2-101 et seq.

        N.      Assignment and Transfer of Funds. City shall not assign or transfer its
obligations under this Agreement nor its rights to the contribution under this Agreement without
prior written consent from the County. City shall use the TRCC Funds provided pursuant to this
Agreement exclusively and solely for the purposes set forth in the Agreement.

       O.      Amendments. This Agreement may be amended, enlarged, modified, or altered
only by an instrument in writing signed by both Parties. If the amendment or modification is
material, the instrument shall be: (i) approved by the governing bodies of the County and City,
including the adoption of any necessary resolutions or ordinances by the County and City
authorizing the execution of any amendment, change, modification or alteration of this
Agreement by the appropriate person or persons for the County and City, respectively, (ii)
executed by a duly authorized official of each of the Parties, (iii) submitted to an attorney for
each Party that is authorized to represent said Party for review as to proper form and compliance
with applicable law, pursuant to Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, and
executed by each respective attorney, and (iv) filed with the keeper of the records of each Party.

       P.      Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is found to be illegal or
unenforceable in a judicial proceeding, such provision will be deemed inoperative and severable,
and, provided that the fundamental terms and conditions of this Agreement remain legal and
enforceable, the remainder of this Agreement will remain operative and binding on the Parties.

        Q.      Governing Law and Venue. The laws of the State of Utah govern all matters
arising out of this Agreement. Venue for any and all legal actions arising hereunder will lie in
the District Court in and for the County of Salt Lake, State of Utah.

        R.      Warrant of Signing Authority. The person or persons signing this Agreement on
behalf of City warrants his or her authority to do so and to bind City. The County may require
City to return all TRCC Funds paid to City based upon a breach of warranty of authority.

        S.     Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, and all so
executed will constitute one agreement binding on all the Parties, it being understood that all
Parties need not sign the same counterpart. Further, executed copies of this Agreement delivered
by facsimile or email will be deemed an original signed copy of this Agreement.

       Each Party hereby signs this Interlocal Cooperation Agreement on the date written by
each Party on the signature pages attached hereto.

        [The balance of this page was left blank intentionally – Signature pages follow]
INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT -- SIGNATURE PAGE FOR THE COUNTY


                                          SALT LAKE COUNTY:


                                          By _____________________________________
                                                Mayor Jennifer Wilson or Designee

                                          Dated: ______________________, 2025


Approved by:

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SERVICES

By _______________________________
     Robin Chalhoub
     Department Director
Dated: _______________________, 2025


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:



By_________________________________
    Senior Deputy District Attorney




                            [Signatures continue on next page.]
INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT -- SIGNATURE PAGE FOR CITY



                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY


                                       By __________________________________

                                       Name: _______________________________

                                       Title: ________________________________

                                       Dated: ______________________, 2025




Attest:


_______________________________
__________________, City Recorder
Date signed: _____________________




Approved as to Form and Legality:

CITY ATTORNEY

By_________________________________

Name: _____________________________

Dated: _______________________, 2025
                                                     Email This Preview   Save as PDF   Print   Close Window   A▲▼


Powered by ZoomGrants™ and

Salt Lake County
Community Services
TRCC
TRCC 2024 Support Program Application (2025 County Fiscal Year)
Deadline: 6/16/2024
               Holladay City Hall Auditorium Renovation Design CFSP
                                 Jump to: Application Questions Documents


 USD$ 22,500.00 Requested                      Holly Smith
                                               4580 S 2300 E                      hsmith@cityofholladay.com
 Submitted: 6/13/2024 8:21:41 AM               Holladay, UT 84117                 Tel: 801-272-9450
 (Pacific)                                     United States
 Additional Contacts
 none entered



Application Questions top

      Some answers will not be presented because they are not part of the selected group of questions based
      on the answer to #13.


     Project Overview

     1. Please select one of the following:
          New project
          Additional funds for a current project

     2. Please select your support program category:
     Your project must fall under one of these categories to be considered for funding. Please refer to the
     TRCC Support Guidelines uploaded to the Resources section above for more information on each
     category.
          TOUR - Tourism Project Support
          PRT - Parks, Recreation and Trails Support
          CFSP - Cultural Facilities Support
          CON - Convention Facilities Support
          Other (Please contact the county if you select this option)

     3. Please list the project address if it is different than your business address. If the addresses
     are the same, then write "n/a".
     n/a

     4. Please provide an overview of your organization, including but not limited to history,
     programs, services offered, and audiences served.
     The City of Holladay was officially incorporated in 1999, and although a relatively young city, the
     community’s rich history dates back to 1847 as one of Utah's earliest settlements. Today, the City’s
approximate 8.4 square miles is home to roughly 31,500 residents. Holladay offers easy access to not
only the amenities of the metropolitan region but also the nearby canyons and national forest areas.

Under the mayor-manager form of government, the City Council and staff are actively pursuing the
implementation of projects and programs to support the City’s vision and general plan. Current programs
include an annual outdoor concert series, creative aging programs for seniors, visual arts programs,
staged performances, community festivals, and more.

Future city goals include enhancing and diversifying arts and cultural offerings, economic development,
parks and trails, place-making, education, and livability, among other priorities. Some of the city’s primary
pursuits for 2024-2025 are implementing the Historical Exhibit Experiences Project and expanding
partnerships with other organizations to bring more visual, performing arts, and cultural programs to
Holladay. While the city’s primary audience is their community, the city hall building and the events held
there see significant use from residents of neighboring cities.

5. Please provide us with your project summary.
This should be an overview of your project that explains its purpose and what it aims to accomplish
(include who, what, when, where, and cost). You will use the Project Details section below to provide
specifics on how this will be accomplished.
The City of Holladay proposes to engage a theater consultant to develop plans and renderings to renovate
the existing Holladay City Hall auditorium into a modern, safe, accessible, efficient, and flexible arts and
cultural community space.

Originally constructed in 1928, Holladay City Hall was a public elementary school that served the
community for over seven decades. In the early 2000s, the City purchased the property from Granite
School District and repurposed it as City Hall. The building is located in the heart of the community at
4580 S 2300 E, adjacent to a popular public park, transit access, historic commercial district, and bike
routes. City Hall is constructed of unreinforced masonry and has other structural issues that pose a life
safety risk during earthquakes. City officials are proposing seismic upgrades that will allow the building to
continue to serve the public for the next 25+ years without the need for an expensive rebuild. Holladay has
applied for a federal grant and other funding programs to cover the costs of the seismic upgrades of the
building.

The nature of the seismic upgrades to Holladay City Hall provides an opportunity to renovate other areas
of the building to meet the current and future needs of the public. The renovation of the existing auditorium
falls under this effort. The venue is currently home to Holladay’s fine arts show, tiny art show, children’s
theater, history night, speaker series, art receptions, visiting exhibits, staged readings, dance recitals,
musical performances, and other events. Its current state is relatively unchanged since its original days as
an elementary school cafeteria and auditorium, or "cafetorium" less the child-sized lunch tables. The
project will ultimately transform the aging auditorium into a modernized venue. The proposed renovation
plan will continue to support and expand a variety of arts and cultural offerings hosted at Holladay City Hall.

The renovation design project will kick off in early 2025 and take about 10 months to complete at a cost of
$25,000.

6. How does your project align with the specified TRCC support program category you selected
in Question 2? For PRT and CFSP projects, please include alignment with the County's Visions
and Principles.
Please refer to the TRCC Guidelines in the Resources tab above for a description of the program
categories as well as the County's Visions and Principles.
“Reflect and address the current and future needs of communities throughout the County.” The proposed
design meets the 2020 County Arts & Culture Master Plan’s recommendation to consider the types and
sizes of facilities to meet future needs. The Holladay auditorium is one of the only venues of its size in the
County and on the east bench.

“Value the needs of individual artists and non-profit arts organizations across all artistic disciplines.” The
proposed project will augment the Holladay Arts Council’s purpose, which centers on serving diverse
groups of children, students, seniors, artists, non-artists, and businesses while supporting a variety of
individual artists and artistic disciplines.

“Only support projects which demonstrate readiness, feasibility, and sustainability.” Holladay is working
with an architect, structural engineer, and construction estimator to prepare for the seismic upgrade and
renovation of Holladay City Hall. The theater consultant’s design work for the auditorium will complement
these ongoing efforts.

“Support projects which address the need to maintain and upgrade existing facilities as well as to
construct new facilities.” The Holladay auditorium is an existing venue that can continue to serve the
community and meet future demands for the next 25+ years with strategic renovation, which is
considerably more cost-effective than the construction of a new facility.

“Support projects which enhance the ability of arts and cultural organizations to improve, expand and
sustain programming.” The renovation design will address ADA accessibility, rehearsal space, improved
parking, reconfigured stage, and equipment needs to sustain and expand programming.

“Utilize cultural facilities as a tool for the sustainable cultural and economic development of the County.”
Located within an adapted former elementary school, the proposed renovation is less material-intensive
and creates less waste than new construction. The venue is within Holladay’s historic commercial district,
contributing to the vitality of businesses and generating sales tax.

“Encourage projects that foster collaboration, regional partnerships, and shared funding.” The renovation
design will support collaboration and partnerships by adding equipment and features to support new
programs while generating new revenue streams for the City.

“Increase access and equity for artists and art organizations, especially by collaborating across local arts
agencies to develop public art programs to support individual artists.” The County’s Arts & Culture Master
Plan noted the lack of space for visual arts. The auditorium is a visual arts space to support individual
artists, which will be augmented by the proposed project.

“Foster spaces dedicated to creating and developing new work, such as multi-use rehearsal facilities and
maker spaces.” The proposed renovation design will consider elements to support new work and create
much-needed rehearsal space.

7. Please provide evidence of local support and community need justifying this project.
(Lessees of government-owned facilities must provide landlord's written consent for
construction/implementation of proposed improvements.)
Provide a list of local support and upload additional supporting documents to the Documents tab.
These may include press coverage, feasibility study results, letters of support from
community/donors/arts organizations in your area, etc.
The proposed project has notable local support, including, Excellence in the Community, Holladay Arts
Council, and Holladay Historical Commission. Please see the letters of support included in this
application.

Additionally, a sampling of press coverage of past events held in the Holladay City Hall auditorium is
included with this application. The news articles highlight the variety of arts and culture programs currently
hosted at the venue. Holladay aims to build upon past success and expand offerings as a result of the
proposed renovation design.

List of article titles included:
-Fifth annual Holladay History night draws large crowd
-Holladay Arts’ Page to Stage program gives kids a creative performing experience
-Holladay Fine Art Show celebrates artistic excellence in the community
-Holladay History Night returns after two-year absence
-Magician Paul Draper mystifies audience with impossible feats of mentalism and magic
-Tiny Art Exhibit showcases the world of miniature art
8. Please provide evidence that your project is appropriately sized to the capacity and needs of
your organization and the community. Include attendance data.
The Holladay City Hall Auditorium is right-sized to the capacity and needs of the organization and the
community. The space hosts a variety of programs, and in a fully seated auditorium layout, it can currently
accommodate up to 250 people comfortably. The venue’s events are well-attended and popular. Holladay
anticipates that the proposed renovation design project will further enhance existing events and
programming while fostering the expansion of offerings and supporting new partnerships and
opportunities for collaboration. Below is a sample of event attendance held within the auditorium in the last
12 months.

-Fine Art Show featured 228 artists at event and venue capacity
-Visual Art Shows attendance of 1,737 people
-Wreath-making class at full registration capacity
-Holiday Concert at full venue capacity
-Historical Commission Preservation Month Speaker Series at full venue capacity
-Children’s Theater sign-up hit maximum participant capacity within an hour of release
-#25 musical and dance recitals hosted at the venue in the past 12 months

Photographs are included in this application's attachments to provide visual evidence of attendance at a
sampling of past events. Included photos:

-Holiday Concert
-Wreath-making Class
-Fine Arts Show Opening Reception
-Preservation Month Speaker Series
-Children's Theater


9. Detail how the project is integral to your organization's mission.
The proposed renovation design aligns with the City of Holladay Mission Statement, which emphasizes a
commitment to “community, safety, and responsible growth, while preserving our charm, history, and
iconic features, with open communication and quality services for all residents and businesses.”

More specifically, the project supports Holladay’s core values:

(1) Community - Our public communication, events and resources support our residents and businesses
and the tight-knit community that we create.

(2) Preservation - We’re committed to preserving our charm and iconic features and celebrating our rich
history of people, places, and stories.

(3) Efficiency - We use resources responsibly and deliver high-quality, efficient, responsive, and cost-
effective public services.

(4) Responsible Growth - Our growth is culturally diverse, economically viable, and environmentally
sustainable; we do this through thoughtful land use development and well-maintained public assets.

(5) Quality of Life - We support the exceptional quality of life that is a hallmark of our community. We take
pride in our unique neighborhoods, history, culture, high-quality schools, and stunning tree canopy. Our
natural environment, open space, arts, cultural offerings, and civic amenities work together to make our
City an exceptional and safe place to live, work, and play.


10. The TRCC Support Program is a reimbursement grant. Describe in detail 1) how you plan to
turn unsecured project funding sources into secured sources, AND 2) how you will manage
cash flow for the project.
You must demonstrate how you will have cash-in-hand to facilitate your project prior to reimbursement
through the TRCC Support Program.
The City of Holladay’s General Fund will provide the local match commitment, which are secured dollars.
No unsecured project funding sources are anticipated as part of this project. Holladay has received prior
TRCC awards and is experienced in managing the cash flow and reimbursement process for projects of a
similar magnitude. The City's finance department actively monitors the cash flow for the organization,
including specific projects, with financial software. The City of Holladay has a conservative fiscal policy
with a healthy reserve fund to cover unexpected needs.

11. Document your ability to raise additional project funds.
Given the scale of the proposed renovation design, the City does not anticipate a need for additional
project funds at this time.


Project Details

12. Provide an analysis of the financial impact this project will have on your organization's
future finances.
The proposed renovation design project will have minimal impact on the city’s finances. All future upkeep
of the eventual construction and purchase of new equipment that is yet to be identified by the plan will fall
under the category of routine City Hall maintenance. These project components are expected to have a
lifespan of 25 or more years. This project will have an eye toward sustainability and manageable costs to
the City.

13. Please specify the type of funding you are requesting.
The questions numbers below will change depending on your selection for this question.
    Consulting Funding
    Capital Funding
    Tourism Promotion Funding

14. Type of consulting services
Theater Consultant

15. Goals and objectives of consulting services
The project is to include improvements to an event and performance space that was formerly an
elementary school "Cafetorium", as part of a larger building-wide seismic retrofit effort. The total
construction budget is to be determined in this Design phase. The theatrical spaces will include a flat floor
assembly hall / event space, raised performance platform, new main audience entry, and improvements
as possible to adjacent spaces for performer support and rehearsal usage.

The project objectives include but are not limited to:
(1) Enhance the continued success of events and programs currently hosted at the auditorium.
(2) Support opportunities to form new partnerships and collaborations to expand events and programs.
(3) Improve ADA and general venue accessibility and controlled access.
(4) Increase the art patron and artist experience.
(5) Incorporate modern practices and equipment to maximize utilization.


16. Scope of Work, including key project components, expected deliverables, timeline, and
estimated project completion date (if approved).
Within your answer to this question, please provide all relevant details that will help reviewers better
understand WHAT is included in the project and HOW you will complete it. Please include projected
start and completion dates.
The architect for the greater Holladay City Hall Seismic Retrofit and Renovation project has prepared
preliminary concepts for the new auditorium entrance, ADA accessibility, improved patron parking,
landscaping, and exterior signage. The proposed plan will focus on refining these elements and providing
renderings and detailed recommendations for the interior auditorium renovation. The scope of work for
this design phase will include but is not limited to the following:
(1) Architectural and Engineering Guidance, including program verification, adjacency and dimensional
planning; performer and technical circulation; technical areas and stage configurations; and structural,
mechanical, electrical, and piping criteria for production operation and systems accommodations.

(2) Theatre Production Systems Documentation, including planning, criteria, design, and oversight of
typically installed production systems, like rigging, lighting control, and audio visual systems.

(3) Theatre and AV Loose Equipment (FF&E) estimate includes planning, criteria, design, and oversight.
The typical loose equipment package entails stage draperies, production lighting fixtures, portable AV
equipment, and portable risers/chairs.

Anticipated Deliverables:
(1) Design Progress, Design Development, and Detail Development for Theatrical and AV drawings.
(2) Engineering Accommodations Recommendations Report and Related Drawing Set Review.
(3) Production Systems Budget Recommendations and Project Estimate Review.
(4) Meetings and related travel during the Design Phase of the project.

The project is anticipated to take 10 months to complete with an estimated project completion date of
December 1, 2025.

17. Payment schedule for the work and expenses.
    I have uploaded a detailed project budget by a qualified professional to the Documents tab.

18. Describe the current facility and specify if it is owned or leased.
-answer not presented because of the answer to #13-

19. Scope of Work, including key project components, expected deliverables, timeline, and
estimated project completion date (if approved).
-answer not presented because of the answer to #13-

20. Describe in detail how you will fund future capital maintenance and operating expenses.
Include a five-year expense forecast and a long term maintenance budget plan.
-answer not presented because of the answer to #13-

21. Provide project management information including key personnel and their experience.
-answer not presented because of the answer to #13-

22. OPTIONAL: Architectural information including site plan, space program, and schematic
design.
-answer not presented because of the answer to #13-

23. Construction information including: construction cost estimate from a qualified
professional, master construction budget, LEED planning (if applicable), and contingency plans
for cost overruns.
-answer not presented because of the answer to #13-

24. Type of tourism promotion services
-answer not presented because of the answer to #13-

25. Goals and objectives of tourism promotion services
-answer not presented because of the answer to #13-

26. Scope of Work, including key project components, expected deliverables, timeline, and
estimated project completion date (if approved).
-answer not presented because of the answer to #13-

27. Payment schedule for the promotional work and expenses
    -answer not presented because of the answer to #13-


Documents top

    Documents Requested *                        Required?Attached Documents *
    REQUIRED: TRCC Project Budget                         Holladay Budget Worksheet
    Worksheet (use provided template; also
    available in Resources section above)
    download template
    REQUIRED: ORGANIZATIONAL BUDGET:                      FY23-24_Holladay Budget_Arts Fund
    Attach three years of your organization’s             FY22-23_Holladay Budget_Arts Fund
    budget to this application, including your
    current budget year. If submitting a                  FY21-22_Holladay Budget_Arts Fund
    municipal budget, please include relevant
    sections, not the entire budget
    REQUIRED: Evidence of local support and               News Article_Fifth annual Holladay History
    community need (may include feasibility               night draws large crowd
    study results if applicable, press coverage,          News Article_Holladay Arts’ Page to Stage
    support letters from community members                program gives kids a creative performing
    and arts & cultural organizations in your             experience
    area, etc) (Q6)
                                                          News Article_Holladay Fine Art Show
                                                          celebrates artistic excellence in the
                                                          community
                                                          News Article_Holladay History Night returns
                                                          after two-year absence
                                                          News Article_Magician Paul Draper
                                                          mystifies audience with impossible feats of
                                                          mentalism and magic
                                                          News Article_Tiny Art Exhibit showcases
                                                          the world of miniature art
                                                          LoS_Holladay Arts
                                                          LoS_Historical Commission
                                                          LoS_Excellence in the Community
    OPTIONAL: Attendance data and evidence                Photo_Dec 2023_Holiday Concert
    of appropriate project size/need (Q7)                 Photo_Dec 2023_Wreath Making Class
                                                          Photo_March 2024_Fine Arts Show -
                                                          Opening Reception
                                                          Photo_May 2024_Preservation Month
                                                          Speaker Series
                                                          Photo_June 2024_Children Theater
    CONSULTING PROJECTS (REQUIRED):                       Consultant Project Budget by Qualified
    Detailed consultant project budget by a               Professional
    qualified professional (Q16)
    CAPITAL PROJECTS (REQUIRED): Deed
    or contract to purchase property or lease
    agreement either executed or pending
    agreement (Q18)
    CAPITAL PROJECTS (OPTIONAL):
    Budget plan for future maintenance and
      operating expenses (Q20)
      CAPITAL PROJECTS (OPTIONAL):
      Architectural documents (may include site
      plan, space program, schematic design)
      (Q22)
      CAPITAL PROJECTS (REQUIRED):
      Construction information documents,
      construction cost estimate by a qualified
      professional, master construction budget by
      a qualified professional. (Q23)
      TOURISM PROMOTION (REQUIRED):
      Detailed project budget

* ZoomGrants™ is not responsible for the content of uploaded documents.

                                                   Application ID: 475787
                                                    Become a fan of ZoomGrants™ on Facebook
                                               Problems? Contact us at Questions@ZoomGrants.com
                                                 ©2002-2024 GrantAnalyst.com. All rights reserved.
                                   "ZoomGrants" and the ZoomGrants logo are trademarks of GrantAnalyst.com, LLC.
                                                                Logout | Browser
                                                     TRCC Project Budget Worksheet


                                                                                                                      Date:    June 12, 2024
    Project Summary:
                                                                                                            Project Name:       Holladay City Hall Auditorium Renovation Design CFSP
         Total Project Budget                       $         25,000.00
         Total Funding Sources                      $          2,500.00                                   Applicant Name:       City of Holladay
         County Funding Requested                   $         22,500.00
                                                                                                           Contact Name:        Holly Smith
                 Projected Surplus/(Deficit)        $                -
                                                                                                           Contact Email:       hsmith@cityofholladay.com




    Project Budget:
                                                        Projected Cost                                                Detail

         Consultant                                 $         25,000.00      Theather consultant to provide renovation design services




                        Total Project Budget        $         25,000.00




    Funding Sources:
                                                           Secured               Unsecured                    Total                                              Detail

         Cash-on-Hand                               $          2,500.00                               $           2,500.00
                                                                                                      $                -
                                                                                                      $                -
                                                                                                      $                -
                                                                                                      $                -
                                                                                                      $                -
                                                                                                      $                -

                      Total Funding Sources         $          2,500.00      $                -       $           2,500.00




K:\TRCC\FY2025\Applications\Funded\CFSP - Holladay City Hall Auditorium Renovation Design\TRCCProjectBudgetWorksheet240611_Holladay-3334514                                            Updated: 04/15/24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30    NN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      00OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21 5E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          21    BB33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5ESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I-I-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         80    NN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            00OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I-I- 5E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21    BB33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5ENN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         00OOFF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I LI L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MM    LLCC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RR EK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 38000                       EK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RACE HEIGHTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  380




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SB33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NNYDALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0SOBFF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VIKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VILLA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KNUDSON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2740




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CRUISE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2940
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HONEYCUT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              50E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1950




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EASTWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1915




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RE
                                                                                                                                                                                  YO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           239
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B RIAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I -I2-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3835                    ND                                                                                                                                                              DEL MAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IDE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  383 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I - 215E SB
                                                                                                                                                                           RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2140
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1860




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I -I2-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ROBIE HILL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2035
                                                                                                                                                                         AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           25
                                                                                                                                                               KA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3900
                                                                                                                                                                 Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5ENN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3900                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUNNYDALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ALBERLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FERAMORZ




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OLIVER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RS P RING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BIRCH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I-215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PINE TREE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENBN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I-2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2175




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2820
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SUMME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0N0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2900




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MATSON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3075




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3E9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LEXI N GTON                                            VENUS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3935                                                                                                                  0 0B E3B9B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EESB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BIRCH                                            E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3030




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DAYSPRING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SB3939
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RAINBOW POINT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NORA                                                                                                                 3960
                                                                                                                                         3970                                                   3990                                                                                           EL DO                                                                                                                                 3970
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EVENING STAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3165
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AURA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ARCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RAD           O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0000O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SATU RN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAR                                                                                        2250




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2280
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Y LAND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1925




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DELSA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DELSA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N15E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MERCURY
                                                                                                                                                                                                        NORTH WOODSIDE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OLYMPIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WOODSIDE                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      400                                                                                                             SOLAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MILKY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3075




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SP



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MARWOOD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B 3900 ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WARDWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CUM BER
                                                                                                                                                                  WOODSID                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEVERN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LI
                                                                                                                                                                         E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2835
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LI                                                                                                                                                       M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V                                                                                                                                                         ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L END O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MORNINGSIDE                                                                                                                                                                                                         MPTON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUADA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SUA DA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WOODSIDE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CAPRICORN                                                                                                                                                                     AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MO                                                                                                                                                                            4090                                                        FFFFF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0 OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LINCOLN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NILA                                                                                          O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RS                                             N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ISO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3305




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0-39090
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3340




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3303000-3-39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N                                                          N                                           AL                 LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VE                                                         GU                                                             CO                                   N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4135                                                                                                                                                                                               MAJESTIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NILA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LI N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COLT HA




                                                                                                                                                     WINDER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BNBB333
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BE V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MORNING STAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CECIL                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CARTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SH                                          O OD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TC 21-525E15N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3100



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MONARCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W                                                                                                                                                                        OV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OLYMPUS                                                                                                                                   IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O OD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SOVEREIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MARQUIS
                                                                                                                                                       4190




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WASA I-I2- 1I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OLYMPIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3320




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CORAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4215




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BLUEBELL
                                                                                                                                                          TREEVIEW                                                                                 LE                                       VIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KARR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PANO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RAMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MELONY                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OW                                                                                                                                                                                                   DDLET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GROVER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CORONET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ILLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HO                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SA                                                                                                                      PA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BONNIE BRAE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ORAMA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OFFF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             00O
                                                                                                                                                                  OLIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LONDON PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ANE                                                                                                                     RA                                                                               MA                                                           HINTZE                                                         MELO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ROW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NNA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VALL E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         45500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SA                      DA                                                      NO                                                                                                                                                                     GLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L IN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LAJOYA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SBB4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHIRLEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5EES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3080
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -2115
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4345
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I2F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C AROL JA NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4                                                                                                                      E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OI-F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                43                                                                                                                     RIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DI E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2950




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I




                                                                                                                                                                                          KIERA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            24 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LO                                                                 D                                     90




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ME                                                        BRI AR W OO                                    43
                                                                                                                                                                        4370




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2990
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3035
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HERMO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IKA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OSAGE ORANGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5                                                                                  LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        45000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1                                                                                                                                                                         0                                                                                                  450
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         44                                                                                                                                                                       447




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NETTIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CAMILLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IA R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SQU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AR




                                                                                                                                                                                      4475




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           450




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IRE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0 0OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      451
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1950




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4505




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4550 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AS P E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HOLL ADAY VIEW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S B4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LLI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 299
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NHOLLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5ENS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RNU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -2105EO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LAN                                                                                                                                                                                            BL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RIBBO                          D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AM                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4550




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -I2510
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CARRIAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BI4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SUNCREST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                276
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AP



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TARA                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I-21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L                                                                                                                              R Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EL                                                                                                                              ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS                             N                                                                                                CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RU                            TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       277
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S                                                                                                                              KE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OOD                                                               MAKENNA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NW                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EEK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I NG                                                                                             M T S P RI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STRATTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATHAN IVERSO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S   P                                               L IVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ESTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I




                                                                                                                                                                           4620
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOCUST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CRESTHI LL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V IE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KL                                                                                                                          N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HO




                                                                                                                                                                                                   S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DE                       OK
                                                                                                                                                                                               KEY                                                                                                                                                                                     INE                                                                                                                  YL                                                                                                                                        KY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TUC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SYCAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4650                                       W AGS TAFF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KEN                                          NIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AP
                                                                                             150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EL
                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ORE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LANE Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HOLLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4675                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EY V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HUGO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2225




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L           OA                               CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NI                                            AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KEL
                                                                           4705                                                                                                                                                                                                             SYCAMORE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NA                                            BR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BRON BRE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3075
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KHA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LY
                                                                                                                          MMUR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOC
                                   4750                                                                                       RR
                                                                                                                             UR AAY
                                                                                                                                   YHHOL                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ICHA BO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DELMO
                                                                                                                                       OLLA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CK
                                                                                                                                          LADA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4730
                                                                                                                                             DA
                                                                                                                                              YY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EW
                                                   Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R                                                                                                                                                            VI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2555




                                                 ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BO                                                                                                                                                          EY
                                          S AX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V IEW                                           VALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MURRAY HOLLADAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ANNABOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AR                                                                                             EY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VALL
                                                                                                                                                                                          BROOKS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                    1740




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VE
                                    DIP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WAN
                                                                A
                                        O




                                                       OG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BRON BRECK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NA
                                                 SARAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GLEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HABOD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WALLACE
                                                                    YO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IR
                                                                      RKT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OA
                          HIDDEN CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WREN
                                            1395



                                                             NY




                                   EEK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LY
                   4850
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E
                                                                          OWN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                   N
                                                         COLO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IC
                                                                                                                                                    WOODBR IDGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WREN
                                                                                                                                MO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2               5       0                                                   R                                                       KA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AR




                                                                                COL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0        48                                                           BO
                                                                                                                              DA




                                                                                    ONY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OW
                                                                                                                                                           1690
                                                                                                                                                    1670




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AR
                                                                                                                                                                   1710




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WO                                                                                                                                                OL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ANDLOR




                                  RE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SLEEP Y H
                                                                                                                 DAMON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O




                                    BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RY




                                                  YORKTOWN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          YE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W




                                      C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LA




                                                                                                                                                   BUNKERHILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WANDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SOMMET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HA
                                         CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WM                                                S
                             KINGS                                                                                                                                                         HIDDEN MEADOWS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ON                                                                                                                           MILO
                                                                                                                                   16




                                   RO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N DA




                                        W
                                                                                                                                      25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REGENCY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WAI M E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HI
                                                                                                             DELAWARE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FLORI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LEHUA
                     1300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FLAMINGO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EENN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IE W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KALANI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         55
                                                                                                                                               FIELDCREST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IRV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ARB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STANFOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I -I2-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OLD
                                                                    BOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C O LONY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FA
                                                                                                                                        1645




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VI E
                                                                       BAB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VALENE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MIDHU R S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ME




                                                                                                                                                                                     MEADOWMOOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ONT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SWAS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I-215E N
                                                                                                                 MO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I-215E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I RB




                                                                                                                      OR
                                                                                                                                                                         WESTMOOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y




                                                                                                                         D     AL E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EDGEMOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RO




                                                                                                                                                                                             MOOR DALE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CASTO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WOODMONT




                                                                                                             SP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       K OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O




                                                                                O                                 RI
                                                                                      AB                             NG                                                                                                                  NT                                        VINTAGE WOODS
                                                                             B




                                                                                        AB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CASTO
                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                  TAR OONA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RM
                                                                                                                          UN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OO
                                                                                      AB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MOO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NW
                                                                                    AB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SOUTHMOOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VERONA                                                  LORED EL L
                                                                                  BO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TTO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2050
                                                                                                                                                          GURENE




                                                                                                                                                                                             EASTMOOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CO
                                  SA




                                                                                                                                       SPR
                                    ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ER




                                                                                                                                          I   NG                                                                                                                                5150                                         DONE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5140
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2870
                              CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LSO
                                      P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
                               IP




                                                                                                                         SADDLEBA CK




                                                                R
                                 BB




                                                            IP E
                                  ER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A




                                                       P                SPRING LEAF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EESB
                                    LE




                                                     ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ALVER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1870




                                                   SA
                                      CR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2100
                                                                                                SPRING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JUNIPER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1155
                                        EEK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I-I-




                                                                                                         BOWDEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      53
                                                                                                 GATE
                                                                          SANDPIPER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BLUE SPRUCE
                                                       SA
                                                         ND
                                                  EK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OOD
                                            L ECRE

                                                           P IP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2110




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 529
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C OT T ONWO OD CL




                                                                                                                                                                 5315
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HA
                                                               ER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NW




                                          COBB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HA




                                    5360                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OAK PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BAYW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EN




                                                                                                                                               MATEO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B AYWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HILLSDEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LL
                                                   141




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EN




                                                                                                 LAKEWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HO




                                                                                                                                                                                               LAKEWOOD
                                                                             EDG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HO




                                        5440
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LLLA
                                                                                                                      1590




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O OD
                                                                                 EW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LAD




                                                                                                 LONE PEAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DAAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WALKER
                                                                                  OO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KEW
                                                                                                                                                                    WOODCREST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MERLYN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ESTATES
                                                                                     D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WALKER WOODS




                                                                                                                          WINWARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5495
                                                                                                                                                    FAIROAKS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COTTONWOOD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LKE




                                                                                                                                                                         5550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INDIA




                                                                                                     BARCON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PHEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           YM




                                                                                                                                                                                5600                                                                                                                                                    SA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HEATHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AN
                                                                                                             1580




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HIGHLAND PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LAURELWOOD
                                                                                      VA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T
                                                                                        NW




                                                                                                                                                               CALANN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SILV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ADAL E
                                                                                           INK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TIO
                                                                                              156




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ER
                                                                                              LE VAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NA




                                                                                                             VEN TNOR                                                                                                                                                               5685
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PHEASANT
                                                                                                  0




                                                                                           00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HAW
                                                                                                                                                                                OAKDALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                         RN




                                                                                      57                                                                                                                LO
                                                                                                                                M ES
                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            K




                                                                                                                      ST JA
                                                                                                      155

                                                                                                       IN




                                                                                                                                                     MERRIBEE                                                                                                                                                                           WILDWOOD
                                                                                                          KL
                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PHEASANT
                                                                                                             E




                                                                                                     6   0                                                                                                  T
                                                                                                  57                                                                                                      ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CECELIA
                                                                                                                                                                                AY
                                                                                                     158




                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                                                               M




                                                                                                                               NW
                                                                                                                                                                                             AU
                                                                                                                                                                      NW
                                                                                                                       VAV




                                                                                                                               NW
                                                                                                                                                                                           BE




                                                                                                         580
                                                                                                                 0                IN                                                                                                                                   FRONTIER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W H IT E
                                                                                                                                                                   CO
                                                                                                                          A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TO




                                                                                                                                   INKL                                 MI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOLCATE                                                                                        TOLCATE
                                                                                                                                     KLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LC




                                                                                                                                                                           ND                                             A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2100




                                                                                                                                        E                                    EN                                         ID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     APP L                                                                                                                     BRENT W OOD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EW                                                                                                                                                                                     OOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OOD                                                                                                                                                           ENTW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CHARLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STO N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                    1300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1900
                   1300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                             1835




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NEWMANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             207




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OAKH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOLCATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LA TOUR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E WO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5960
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NUNLEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                         AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TC




                                                                                                                                                                                                           ND                                                   INNS                                                                                                                                                                                               FARDOWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OND HIL L S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LINDEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BR                                                                                   RENOIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H




                                                                                                                                                                                                             EL                                                        UC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                               L                                                         K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LINDEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FFI -215E SB 6200 EB OFF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2180




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2230




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S H ADY BROOK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1830




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I -2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6060
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I -1251E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5ENN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VI NE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FIEL                                                              D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6110                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BB62602000WW B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D ROSE                                                                                                                                                 S SIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MURDOCH WOODS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HEU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CREEKC RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2075




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S CYN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HOLLADAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BBO F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VERNESS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B OO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2090




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00EE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 00



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B 6200 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S BB6262




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UGHS C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BIG COTTONWOOD                                                                                                                                                                                           BIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BIGCOTTONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COTTONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ASHBURY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2275




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COB B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5E S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NIMA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ONN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OLES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2510




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F 1251E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                00EEBB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  62




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             YN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I -2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I-215E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O FI -2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2634
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROC K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NYO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B662200




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OAKCR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OLES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S WB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H AVE N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COTT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OFF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15S W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T ECRISTO                                                                 6320                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I- 2O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          65 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ON COVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IB-2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EI-BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CRES T MO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HIGHLAND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CR EST M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HAUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HAUN                                                                                                                                               W                                                                                                                                                                                                          S5S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RE N HAVEN                                                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6                        F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                                                                                                              6620
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -O2I -12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6380                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B                                                                                                                                                                              2000 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W                    EBI                                                                                                                                                                 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              00                    15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CANY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EAGLESLANDING                                  62                   I -2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UNT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FF                                                                                                                                                                                                                B           F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2000000OOFF                                                                                                                                                                                                            0 E          FF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 21O5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6425                                B 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FFS WW B      N I-215S EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B 620        BI-O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -12515S 000 NB O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I-215S W          0 WW B               20 00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   200I0-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S                                       S WB                   B2                   6450                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I -I2-1  5 SEB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1S   EB6 62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I-215 B                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 00                                                            5S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20                                        5S W              -21                                                                                                                                                                                                            6485                        TORTUG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B                                        I-21             O NI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S                                                              SB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0O0N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BOUCHELLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2520




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2475




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I -2                                                           2B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2600




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ESBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N YON CREST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UGHS CY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CANYON COVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WBB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5S W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               YON RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MILLROCK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2050S0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COTTONW OOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NN I-2I-121                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             201




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NBB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EBBI-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0000 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NB O5NSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BB2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FFI -I2-1                                                                             I -I2- 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WW           NBBOO FF       251S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BB2000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5SS          2000000 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2000SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I-2I-1215                                               BB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EB 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5S SEB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I -2  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I -21 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OFOF


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GUN CLUB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FF




                                                                                                I-215S
                                                                                                  I-215SEB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S WB




                                                                                                         EB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I-215




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S T ONE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M ILL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            YN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FORTUNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IGIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HH     AA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LL  DD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           City of Holladay Firework
           AA
        NNPP  KK
             RR
      IO
 U NI O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Restrictions 2021
UN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Feet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0                 300             600                     1,200                          1,800                                  2,400


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NGGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ALL
ALL AREA EAST OF I-215 INCLUDING THE FREEWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY with the
exception of Old Mill Golf Course, the Park-N-Ride, and the Millrock area. This area runs from
the north-east corner of the City at 3900 South to 6200 South. All I-215 UDOT property, including
the western upward slope leading up to 1-215, including Stratton Park is part of this area.
Residential areas include the Heughs Canyon Subdivision (all streets east of Wasatch Blvd.), and
the Tolcate Hills area east of the freeway (Tolcate Lane, Silver Hawk Drive, Whitewater Drive,
Whitewater Circle, and Tolcate Hills Drive).

COTTONWOOD AREA
This takes in much of the south end of the City within the following borders: Beginning at the
south border of the City of Holladay at 2300 East and I-215, continuing north along 2300 East to
Big Cottonwood Road (6200 South), following Big Cottonwood Road west to Highland Drive,
following Highland Drive north to Arbor Lane, following Arbor Lane east and north to
Viewmont Street, following Viewmont Street east to Marilyn Drive, following Marilyn Drive
south and east to Edgemoor Drive, following Edgemoor Drive east to Cottonwood Lane,
following Cottonwood Lane north to Holladay Blvd., following Holladay Blvd. south to 6200
South, following 6200 South east to I-215, following I-215 west along the south border of the
City of Holladay to 2300 East, and including the full boundary of Knudsen Park.

SPRING CREEK.
The area bounded by I-215 on the east and Holladay Blvd. on the west, with Valley View Drive
merging into Branch Street on the south and Murray Holladay Road merging into Apple
Blossom Lane, and then extending to 4430 South east of Wallace Lane on the north, all
surrounding Spring Creek.

BIG COTTONWOOD CREEK and CREEKSIDE PARK
This area includes all areas bounded by Cottonwood Lane on the east and Murray Holladay Road
on the west, and within 200 feet of the center of Big Cottonwood Creek and all areas within the
borders of Creekside Park (Frisbee Park) and also includes the Wasatch Waldorf Charter School.

NEFF’S CREEK
The area east of 2700 East bounded by Morningside Drive and Morningside Cir on the north and
Nila Way on the south, extending east to Lisa Drive. Includes any area within one hundred feet
of the center of Neff’s Creek between Lisa Drive and Shanna Street. Neff’s Creek is located just
north of Nila Way in the northeast corner of the City.

OLYMPUS HILLS PARK
This includes all areas within the borders of Olympus Hills Park and 3080 E and Coronet Street
on the north.

COUNTY ROAD AREA

This area includes property east of Holladay Blvd. and west of the I-215 freeway and bounded
by County Road on the north and 6200 South on the south.
                                      TITLE 2
                                    GOVERNMENT

CITY COUNCIL 2.01
MAYOR 2.02
ELECTION AND QUALIFICATION 2.03
LEGISLATION 2.04
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES 2.05
CITY MANAGER 2.06
APPOINTED OFFICERS 2.07
COMMITTEES 2.08
EMPLOYEE APPEALS HEARING OFFICER 2.09
GOVERNMENT RECORDS AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT ACT 2.10
PROCUREMENT 2.11


                                     CHAPTER 2.01
                                     CITY COUNCIL

SECTION:
2.01.010: Governing Body
2.01.020: Election To Office
2.01.030: Powers And Duties
2.01.040: Meetings
2.01.050: Open Meetings Law
2.01.060: Notice Of Meetings
2.01.070: Agenda
2.01.080: Minutes And Recordings
2.01.090: Mayor Presides
2.01.100: Quorum
2.01.110: Voting
2.01.120: Reconsideration
2.01.130: Summary Action
2.01.140: Rules Of Order And Procedure
2.01.150: Attendance
2.01.160: Disorderly Conduct
2.01.170: Required Attendance Of Witnesses And Production Of Evidence
2.01.180: Council Committees

2.01.010: GOVERNING BODY:

The governing body of the city of Holladay City shall be a six (6) member council consisting
of five (5) council members elected from districts of the city and the mayor, who shall be
elected at large. Districts shall be constituted as determined by ordinance of the city
council. The council is hereinafter referred to as the "city council". (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-
2016)

2.01.020: ELECTION TO OFFICE:

The mayor of the city shall be elected in an at large election. Council members shall be
elected from geographic districts of the city. The five (5) council districts shall be
substantially equal in population. A council member must be a qualified elector residing in
the district from which he or she is elected. The term of office for the mayor and council
members shall be four (4) years, except when the term may be shorter by virtue of an
appointment to fill a remaining term. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.01.030: POWERS AND DUTIES:

The city council is the legislative body of the city and shall exercise the legislative powers
and perform the legislative duties and functions of the city and may perform such other
functions as may be specifically provided or necessarily implied by law. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-
26-2016)

2.01.040: MEETINGS:

   A. Regular Meetings: The city council shall hold regular meetings to conduct the
      business of the city at least once each month and shall prescribe by ordinance the
      time and place for holding its regular meetings. In general, regular meetings of the
      city council will be held on the first three (3) Thursdays of each month at the offices
      of the city. The city council shall prepare and provide notice of its annual meeting
      schedule in accordance with applicable law.

   B. Special Meetings: If at any time the business of the city requires a special meeting of
      the city council, such a special meeting may be ordered by the mayor or any two (2)
      council members. Notice of the special meeting shall be provided in accordance with
      the provisions of the Utah open and public meetings act and Utah Code Annotated
      section 10-3-502, as amended. The order of the special meeting shall be entered into
      the minutes of the city council.

   C. Closed Meetings: The affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the city council
      present at an open meeting for which notice is given and a quorum is present may
      call a closed meeting to discuss certain items as provided under Utah Code
      Annotated section 52-4-205, as amended. The reason or reasons for holding a closed
      meeting and the vote, by name, of each member of the city council, either for or
      against the motion to hold the closed meeting, shall be entered on the minutes of the
      meeting. No ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, contract, or appointment shall
      be approved at a closed meeting.
   D. Electronic Meetings: The city council may convene and conduct an electronic
      meeting in accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 52-4-
      207, as amended. The city council shall establish and adopt written rules and
      procedures governing such electronic meetings. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.01.050: OPEN MEETINGS LAW:

All meetings of the city council shall be open to the public, except closed meetings, and shall
be conducted in accordance with the open and public meetings act as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 52-4-101 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.01.060: NOTICE OF MEETINGS:

The city shall give public notice at least once each year of its annual meeting schedule. as
per public noticing provisions provided in Appendix C: "Noticing Requirements" of Title 13.
Notice of the agenda, date, time and place of each of its meetings, other than emergency
meetings, shall be in accordance with Utah Code Annotated sections 52-4-202, as amended,
and 63F-1-701, as amended, regarding postings on the Utah public notice website. (Ord.
2016-09, 5-26-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-18, 8-5-2021)

2.01.070: AGENDA:

A written agenda for each regular meeting shall be prepared by the city manager or his or
her designee and approved by the mayor or mayor pro tempore in the mayor's absence.
Any two members of the city council may request that one or more items be placed on the
agenda. Each agenda shall provide reasonable specificity to notify the public as to the
topics to be considered at the public meeting and topics discussed at the meeting shall
comply with applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 52-4-202, as amended.
(Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.01.080: MINUTES AND RECORDINGS:

Except as otherwise provided by law, written minutes and a recording shall be kept of all
meetings of the city council in accordance with the provisions set forth in Utah Code
Annotated sections 52-4-203 and 206, as amended, and shall be presented to the city
council for review, correction and approval. The city council shall establish and implement
procedures for approval of written minutes of its meetings. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.01.090: MAYOR PRESIDES:

The mayor shall be the chairperson and preside at the meetings of the city council. In the
absence of the mayor or because of his or her inability or refusal to act, the city council may
elect a member of the city council to preside over the meeting as mayor pro tempore in
accordance with the procedures set forth in chapter 2.02 of this title. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-
2016)
2.01.100: QUORUM:

No action of the city council shall be official or of any effect except when a quorum of the
council members are present, provided, that fewer than a quorum may adjourn a meeting.
The number of council members necessary to constitute a quorum is four (4). (Ord. 2016-
09, 5-26-2016)

2.01.110: VOTING:

   A. How Taken: A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all ordinances,
      resolutions, and any action which would create a liability against the city and in any
      other case at the request of any member of the city council by a "yes" or a "no" vote.
      Every resolution or ordinance shall be in writing before the vote is taken. A written
      resolution or ordinance may be amended by oral motion.

   B. Number Required: The minimum number of "yes" votes required to pass any
      ordinance, resolution, or to take any action by the city council, unless otherwise
      prescribed by law, shall be a majority of the voting members of the city council
      without considering any vacancy in the city council. Any ordinance, resolution, or
      motion of the city council having fewer favorable votes than required herein shall be
      deemed defeated and invalid. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a council meeting may
      be adjourned by a majority vote of the council even though the majority is less than
      required herein, and a majority of the council members, regardless of number, may
      fill any vacancy in the council as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-
      510, as amended. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.01.120: RECONSIDERATION:

Any action taken by the city council shall not be reconsidered or rescinded at any special
meeting unless the number of members of the city council present at the special meeting is
equal to or greater than the number of members present at the meeting when the action
was approved. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.01.130: SUMMARY ACTION:

When two (2) or more agenda items for a city council meeting are determined by the city
manager to be of a routine nature, such items may be placed upon a summary action
calendar on the agenda. The summary action calendar may be voted upon by the council as
one matter and shall have the same effect as if a separate vote on each summary action
calendar item was taken. Prior to a final vote on the summary action calendar, any member
of the city council may request to take any or all items on the summary action calendar off
the summary action calendar for discussion, debate or question. Any question, debate or
discussion regarding an item on the summary action calendar, except in the nature of
clarification or brief explanation of the content of an item, shall require a request to remove
the item from the summary action calendar. No items requiring a public hearing shall be
placed on the summary action calendar. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)
2.01.140: RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:

   A. Adoption Of Rules: Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-606, as amended,
      the city council shall adopt rules of order and procedure governing public meetings
      of the city council ("rules of order and procedure"). All public meetings of the city
      council shall be conducted in accordance with the adopted rules of order and
      procedure. The rules of order and procedure shall be made available to the public at
      each public meeting of the city council and on the city's website. Members of the city
      council are elected officers within the meaning of the Utah municipal officers' and
      employees' ethics act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1301 et seq.,
      as amended. City council members shall comply with the provisions of the ethics act
      in all matters pertaining to the city and in public meetings of the city council.

   B. Civil Discourse: Remarks and comments made in public meetings of the city council
      should be relevant to the matters before the city council. Speakers should speak in
      an audible and clear tone and refrain from attacking city council members or others
      or their motives. City council meetings should be conducted in a courteous manner
      to promote an atmosphere in which all points of view may be expressed and heard.
      Council members should not interrupt other members during discussion and
      debate. Remarks should be addressed through the mayor who shall allow
      reasonable opportunity for all points of view to be expressed. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-
      2016)

2.01.150: ATTENDANCE:

The city council shall have the power to compel the attendance of its own members at its
meetings and to provide penalties it considers necessary for the failure to comply with an
exercise of authority to compel attendance. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.01.160: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:

The city council on a two-thirds (2/3) vote of its members may expel any person who is
disorderly and/or disruptive during the meeting of the city council. The city council may
also on a two- thirds (2/3) vote of its members expel or fine any council member for
disorderly and/or disruptive conduct. This section or any action taken by the governing
body pursuant hereto shall not preclude prosecution under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.01.170: REQUIRED ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES AND PRODUCTION OF EVIDENCE:

The city council may require the attendance of any person to give testimony or produce
records, documents or things for inspection, copying or examination necessary or useful for
the governance of the city. The city council may issue subpoenas in its own name in the
manner provided in the Utah rules of civil procedure or may by ordinance establish its own
procedure for issuing subpoenas under this section. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)
2.01.180: COUNCIL COMMITTEES:

   A. Generally: The city council may from time to time delegate portions of its authority
      by resolution to committees composed of at least two (2) members of the city
      council.

   B. Authority: Committees of the city council shall be limited in authority to the specific
      assignment of the city council and shall exercise their authority subject to a
      standard specified by the council in making the delegation.

   C. As A Whole: The authority delegated to any committee of the council must be
      exercised by vote of the committee as a whole and no individual committee member
      may exercise the delegated authority independently.

   D. Administrative Directives Limited: A committee of the council may not issue
      instructions or recommendations to the city manager or other city employees other
      than for routine support services without express delegation of authority to do so by
      the city council.

   E. Reporting: The committee may return any recommendation or suggestions to the
      city council which may at any time extend, restrict, or otherwise alter the delegation
      of authority to the committee.

   F. Designation Of Chair: The assignment of a committee chair shall may be made by
      the city council when delegating any portion of its authority to a committee of the
      council. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)


                                      CHAPTER 2.02
                                        MAYOR

SECTION:
2.02.010: General Powers
2.02.020: Voting Authority
2.02.030: Mayor Pro Tem
2.02.040: Restrictions And Appointments

2.02.010: GENERAL POWERS:

The Mayor of the City of Holladay shall be the Chief Ceremonial Officer of the City, the Chair
of the City Council and may represent the City in external relationships. Subject to the
provisions of 2.11.290, the Mayor may execute contracts and interlocal agreements.

2.02.020: VOTING AUTHORITY:
The Mayor shall be elected at large and shall be a voting member of the City Council and
shall have the associated powers and privileges. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.02.030: MAYOR PRO TEM:

In the absence of the Mayor or because of his or her inability or refusal to act, the City
Council may elect a member of the City Council to preside over the meeting as Mayor Pro
Tempore. The election of a Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entered in the minutes of the City
Council meeting at which he or she is elected. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall preside at the
Council meeting and perform, during the Mayor's absence, disability, or refusal to act, the
duties and functions of the Mayor. Any member of the City Council elected as Mayor Pro
Tempore shall still retain his or her power and authority as a member of the Council and
shall be entitled to vote as a member of the City Council on all matters. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-
2016)

2.02.040: RESTRICTIONS AND APPOINTMENTS:

The Mayor may not serve as the City Recorder or the City Treasurer, but shall appoint
qualified persons to each such office with the advice and consent of the City Council. (Ord.
2017-23, 10-5-2017)


                                  CHAPTER 2.03
                           ELECTION AND QUALIFICATION

SECTION:
2.03.010: Elections
2.03.020: Declaration Of Candidacy
2.03.030: Nomination Petition
2.03.040: Residency And Registered Voter Requirements
2.03.050: Term Of Office
2.03.060: Vacancies
2.03.070: Oath Of Office
2.03.080: Bond
2.03.090: Salaries
2.03.100: Transfer Of Records
2.03.110: Campaign Finance Statement
2.03.120: Ethics Act

2.03.010: ELECTIONS:

The offices of mayor and council member shall be filled by election of the registered voters
of the city of Holladay in a municipal election held on the Tuesday after the first Monday in
November, as provided in title 10, chapter 3 of the Utah Code Annotated. Municipal
elections for the offices of mayor or council member shall be conducted in the manner
provided in the Utah election code, set forth in title 20A of the Utah Code Annotated.
Council members shall be elected from districts, as more fully set forth below. The mayor
shall be elected at large. Primary elections, as required, shall be conducted in accordance
with all applicable provisions of state law. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.03.020: DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY:

Any eligible and qualified person desiring to run for the elected municipal offices of mayor
or council member shall file a declaration of candidacy with the city recorder in accordance
with the filing requirements set forth in title 20A, chapter 9 of the Utah Code Annotated.
(Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.03.030: NOMINATION PETITION:

Any resident of the city may nominate a candidate for elected municipal office by filing a
nomination petition with the city recorder in accordance with the filing requirements set
forth in title 20A, chapter 9 of the Utah Code Annotated. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016) Make
sure reference is consistent.

2.03.040: RESIDENCY AND REGISTERED VOTER REQUIREMENTS:

Persons eligible to file a declaration of candidacy or to be nominated for the elected office
of mayor or council member shall have been a resident of the city of Holladay for at least
three hundred sixty five (365) consecutive days immediately before the date of the
election, shall be a registered voter of the city, and shall meet the requirements of Utah
Code Annotated section 20A-9-203, as amended. Each person elected to the office of mayor
or council member shall maintain residency within the boundaries of the city and for
council members the appropriate district during his or her term of office. If a person
elected to the office of mayor or council member establishes his or her principal place of
residence outside the municipality or the appropriate district during his or her term of
office, the office is automatically vacant. If a person elected to the office of mayor or council
member is absent from the city anytime during his or her term of office for a continuous
period of more than sixty (60) days without the consent of the city council, that person's
elected office is automatically vacant. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.03.050: TERM OF OFFICE:

Persons elected to the office of mayor or council member shall begin their term of office at
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the first Monday in January following their election, and
shall continue in office for four (4) years thereafter and until their respective successors
are chosen and qualified, except in case of death, resignation, removal, or disqualification
from office. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.03.060: VACANCIES:
Vacancies in the offices of mayor or council member shall be filled in accordance with the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510, as amended. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-
2016)

2.03.070: OATH OF OFFICE:

   A. Required: All elected officials shall take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of
      office before entering upon the duties of their respective offices. Elected officials
      shall take their oath of office at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the first Monday in
      January following their election or as soon thereafter as is practical.

   B. Administered: The oath of office shall be administered by the city recorder, any
      judge, or any notary public.

   C. Filed: All oaths of office shall be filed with the city recorder.

   D. Failure To Comply: No official act of any officer shall be invalid for the reason that he
      or she failed to take the oath of office. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.03.080: FIDELITY BONDS AND THEFT OR CRIME INSURANCE:

   A. Required: All elected officers, appointees and employees shall be bonded or insured
      as required by state law. The City Council shall prescribe the amount of a general
      fidelity bond or have in place a theft or crime insurance aquired for each municipal
      officer.
      Elected officers of the city before taking office shall execute a bond with good and
      sufficient sureties, payable to the city in such amount as set forth by the city council,
      conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of the respective officers and
      the payment of all monies received by such officer according to the law and the
      ordinances of the city of Holladay.
        B. Approval: The bonds of council members shall be approved by the mayor, and
      the bond of the mayor shall be approved by the city council, at the first meeting of
      the city council in January following a municipal election. All bonds of elected
      officers shall be filed with the city recorder.

   B. The premium charge required by this section shall be paid for by the City. Premium
       Charge: The premium charge by a corporate surety for any official bond shall be
       paid by the city of Holladay.
   C.B.         D. Additional Bonds: The city council may at any time require further and
       additional bonds of any elected officers of the city. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)



2.03.090: SALARIES:
Elected officers shall receive such compensation for their services as the city council may
fix or amend by ordinance in accordance with the notice and hearing requirements set
forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-818, as amended. The compensation of elected
officers shall be paid at least monthly. City staff, as part of the regular budget process, may
review the appropriateness of the compensation received by the mayor and city council
members and recommend adjustments thereto as deemed appropriate, taking into
consideration the impact of inflation, consumer price index, and the compensation of
elected officials in nearby cities of similar size. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.03.100: TRANSFER OF RECORDS:

Every officer of the city upon expiration of his or her term for any cause whatsoever shall,
within five (5) days after notification and request to do so, deliver to his or her successor
all books and records , electronic data and any technology which may be the property of
the city. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)


2.03.110: CAMPAIGN FINANCE STATEMENT:

Statement Required: Each candidate for municipal office shall comply with the provisions
of Section 10-3-208 of the Utah Code Annotated in the filing of campaign finance disclosure
statements. file with the city recorder a campaign finance statement, in substantially the
same form as provided by the city, disclosing his or her itemized and total campaign
contributions and expenditures in accordance with the procedures and requirements set
forth herein.
  B. Time For Filing: Each candidate for municipal office who is eliminated at a municipal
primary election shall file with the city recorder a campaign finance statement no later than
thirty (30) days after the municipal primary election. Each candidate for municipal office
who is not eliminated at a municipal primary election shall file with the city recorder a
campaign finance statement no later than seven (7) days before the municipal general
election and no later than thirty (30) days after the municipal general election. A campaign
finance statement required under this section is considered filed if it is received in the city
recorder's office by five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the date that it is due.
  C. Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following words shall have the meanings
set forth:
  REPORTING DATE: Ten (10) days before a municipal general election (for a campaign
finance statement required to be filed no later than 7 days before a municipal general
election) and the day of filing (for a campaign finance statement required to be filed no
later than 30 days after a municipal primary or general election).
  REPORTING LIMIT: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
  D. Campaign Finance Statement: Except as provided in subsection E of this section, each
campaign finance statement shall:
    1. Report all of the candidate's itemized and total campaign contributions, including in-
kind and other nonmonetary contributions as of the reporting date;
    2. Report all of the candidate's expenditures as of the reporting date;
    3. Identify for each contribution that exceeds the reporting limit, the amount of the
contribution and the name of the donor;
    4. Identify the aggregate total of all contributions that individually do not exceed the
reporting limit; and
    5. Identify for each campaign expenditure, the amount of the expenditure and the name
of the recipient of the expenditure.
  E. Alternative Statement: If the candidate receives five hundred dollars ($500.00) or less
in campaign contributions and spends five hundred dollars ($500.00) or less on the
candidate's campaign, the candidate shall be required to merely report the total amount of
all campaign contributions and expenditures.
  F. Notice To Candidates: The city recorder shall, at the time a candidate for municipal
office files a declaration of candidacy with the city and again fourteen (14) days before each
municipal general election, notify the candidate in writing of:
    1. The provisions of state statutes or city ordinances governing the disclosure of
campaign contributions and expenditures;
    2. The dates when the candidate's campaign finance statement is required to be filed;
and
    3. The penalties that apply for failure to file a timely campaign finance statement,
including the statutory provisions that require removal of the candidate's name from the
ballot for failure to file the required campaign finance statement when required.
  G. Failure To File: Except as provided in subsection H of this section, if a candidate fails
to file a campaign finance statement in accordance with the provisions of this section and
applicable provisions of state law, the city recorder shall inform the appropriate election
official who shall, if practical, remove the candidate's name from the ballot by blacking out
the candidate's name before the ballots are delivered to voters; or if removing the
candidate's name from the ballot is not practicable, inform the voters by any practicable
method that the candidate has been disqualified and that the votes cast for the candidate
will not be counted.
  H. Inadvertent Omissions: Notwithstanding subsection G of this section, a candidate who
files a campaign finance statement seven (7) days before a municipal general election is not
disqualified if: 1) the statement details accurately and completely the information required
herein, except for inadvertent omissions or insignificant errors or inaccuracies; and 2) the
omissions, errors, or inaccuracies are corrected in an amended report or in the next
scheduled report.
  I. Public Records: Financial disclosure reports filed pursuant to this section are
considered public documents open to inspection in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-208, as amended, and the Utah government records access and management
act, as amended. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.03.120: ETHICS ACT:

All elected officers, appointed officers and employees of the city shall comply with the
provisions, conditions and requirements of the Utah municipal officers' and employees'
ethics act as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1301 et seq., as amended. (Ord.
2016-09, 5-26-2016)
                                      CHAPTER 2.04
                                      LEGISLATION

SECTION:
2.04.010: Ordinances
2.04.020: Resolutions
2.04.030: Public Records

2.04.010: ORDINANCES:

   A. Legislative Power: Except as otherwise specifically provided, the city council shall
      exercise its legislative powers through ordinances.

   B. Extent Of Power: The city council may pass any ordinance to regulate, require,
      prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity, business, conduct or condition
      authorized by law.

   C. Form: Any ordinance passed by the city council shall contain and be in substantially
      the order and form as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-704, as
      amended. No ordinance shall be void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform
      to certain provisions of said law.

   D. Effective Date: Unless otherwise provided in the ordinance, ordinances shall become
      effective twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days after final
      passage by the city council, whichever is sooner. Ordinances may become effective
      at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so provided in the ordinance.

   E. Signed: Ordinances passed or enacted by the city council, before taking effect, shall
      be signed by the mayor, or if he is absent, by the mayor pro tempore or by a quorum
      of the council members as required by law..

   F. Publication: All ordinances, before taking effect, shall be posted and/or published as
      required by law.

   G. Recording: The city recorder shall record, in a book used exclusively for that
      purpose, all ordinances passed by the city council. The city recorder shall give each
      ordinance a number, if the city council has not already done so. The city recorder
      shall make or cause to be made a certificate stating the date of passage and the date
      of publication or posting of the ordinance, as required. (UCA 10-3-713)

   H. Prima Facie Evidence: The record and certificate prepared by the city recorder, or a
      certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage, and
      publication or posting of the ordinance or codification. In addition, the ordinances
      printed and published by the authority of the city council, shall be prima facie
      evidence of the contents, passage, and legal publication of such ordinances, as of the
      dates mentioned in the publication in all courts and administrative proceedings.

   I. Proved Under Seal: The contents of all ordinances of the city of Holladay, the dates
      of passage, and the dates of publication or posting, may be proved by the
      certification of the city recorder under the seal of the city of Holladay. (Ord. 2016-
      09, 5-26-2016)

2.04.020: RESOLUTIONS:

   A. Administrative AuthorityPowers: Unless otherwise required by law, the city council
      may exercise any all administrative powers authority by resolution.

   B. Form: Any resolution passed by the city council shall be in a form and contain
      sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.

   C. Effective Date: Resolutions may take effect on passage or at a later date as the city
      council may determine, but resolutions may not become effective more than three
      (3) months from the date of passage.

   D. Publication: Resolutions may become effective without publication or posting.

   E. Limitation: No punishment, fine, or forfeiture may be imposed by resolution. (Ord.
      2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.04.030: PUBLIC RECORDS:

The ordinances, resolutions, and any other books, records, accounts or documents of the
city shall be kept at the office of the city recorder. Approved copies shall be open and
available to the public during regular business hours for examination and copying in
accordance with the Utah government records access and management act, as adopted by
the city. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)


                                CHAPTER 2.05
                        CONSTITUTIONAL TAKINGS ISSUES

SECTION:
2.05.010: Purpose And Intent
2.05.020: Constitutional Taking
2.05.030: Guidelines And Procedures For Review
2.05.040: Limitations

2.05.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide advisory guidelines to assist the city in identifying
and reviewing actions of the city which may involve the physical taking or exaction of
private real property that may involve constitutional taking issues in accordance with the
advisory provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 63L-4-101 et seq. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-
2016)

2.05.020: CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING:

   A. As used herein "constitutional taking issues" means actions involving the physical
      taking or exaction of private real property by the city that might require
      compensation to a private real property owner because of:

       1. The fifth or fourteenth amendment of the constitution of the United States;

       2. Article I, section 22 of the Utah constitution; or

       3. Any recent court rulings governing the physical taking or exaction of private real
          property by a governmental entity.

   B. Actions by the city involving the physical taking or exaction of private real property
      is not a constitutional taking if the physical taking or exaction:

       1. Bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest; and

       2. Is roughly proportionate and reasonably related, on an individualized property
          basis, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development on
          the legitimate government interest. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.05.030: GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW:

Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a constitutional taking of the
owner's private real property by the city shall request a review of the final decision of any
official, employee, board, commission or council of the city implicating such constitutional
taking. The following guidelines and procedures shall be followed in the event such review
is requested:

   A. Final Decision: The person requesting a review must have obtained a final and
      authoritative determination, internally, within the city, relative to the decision from
      which they are requesting review.

   B. Time For Filing: The person requesting a review shall file his or her request in
      writing to the office of city recorder within thirty (30) days from the date of the final
      decision that gave rise to the concern that a constitutional taking has occurred.

   C. Date For Review: The city council or its designee shall immediately set a time to
      review the decision that gave rise to the constitutional taking claim.
D. Additional Information: In addition to the written request for review, the applicant
   shall submit prior to the date of review the following information. An application
   shall not be deemed "complete" or "submitted" until the reviewing body certifies to
   the applicant that all the materials and information required herein has been
   received. The reviewing body shall promptly notify the applicant of an incomplete
   application.

   1. Name of the applicant requesting review;

   2. Name and business address of current owner of the property, form of
      ownership, and name and address of all principal shareholders or partners if a
      business entity is involved;

   3. A detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there has been a
      constitutional taking;

   4. A detailed description of the property alleged to have been taken;

   5. Evidence and documentation as to the value of the property alleged to have been
      taken, including any evidence of the value of the property before and after the
      alleged taking, the name of the party from whom the property was purchased
      and the relationship if any between the person requesting review and the party
      from whom the property was acquired;

   6. The nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such as, but not
      limited to, fee simple ownership, leasehold, etc.;

   7. Terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of a full or partial
      interest in the property in the three (3) years prior to the date of application;

   8. All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, including financing,
      offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the three (3) years prior to the
      date of application;

   9. The assessed value of and the ad valorem taxes on the property for the previous
      three (3) years;

   10. All information concerning current mortgages or other loans secured by the
       property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest rate,
       remaining loan balance and term of loan and other significant provisions,
       including, but not limited to, right of purchasers to assume the loan;

   11. All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and offers received, if any,
       within the previous three (3) years;
       12. All studies commissioned by the applicant within the previous three (3) years
           concerning feasibility of development or utilization of the property;

       13. Itemized income and expense statements from the property for the previous
           three (3) years for income producing property;

       14. Information from a title policy or other source showing all recorded liens or
           encumbrances affecting the property; and

       15. Any other additional information requested by the city which is reasonably
           necessary in its opinion to arrive at a conclusion concerning whether there has
           been a constitutional taking.

   E. Review: The city council or its designee shall hear all the evidence related to and
      submitted in connection with the request for review to determine whether or not
      the action by the city constitutes a constitutional taking as defined herein, including
      consideration of the following:

       1. Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real property bears an
          essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest;

       2. Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action taken by the
          city; and

       3. Whether the taking or exaction is roughly proportionate and reasonably related,
          on an individual property basis, both in nature and extent, to the impact caused
          by the activities that are the subject of the decision being reviewed.

   F. Decision: The city council or its designee shall render a final decision on the review
      within fourteen (14) days from the date the complete application for review was
      submitted to the city recorder. The decision of the city council or its designee
      regarding the results of the review shall be given in writing to the applicant and the
      official, employee, board, commission or council that rendered the final decision
      that gave rise to the constitutional taking claim. When determined to be necessary
      and appropriate, the reviewing body shall make a recommendation to the official,
      employee, board, commission or council that made the decision that gave rise to the
      constitutional taking claim.

   G. Failure To Render Decision: If the city fails to hear and decide the appeal within
      fourteen (14) days, the acting body's decision or action is presumed to be approved.
      (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.05.040: LIMITATIONS:

The guidelines set forth herein and any decision rendered pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter are advisory only and shall not be construed to expand or limit the scope of the
city's liability for a constitutional taking. The city shall have no legal liability to any person,
firm or entity of any nature whatsoever and a court may not impose liability upon the city
for failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)


                                       CHAPTER 2.06
                                       CITY MANAGER

SECTION:
2.06.010: Appointment Of City Manager
2.06.020: Functions And Duties
2.06.030: Intergovernment Cooperation

2.06.010: APPOINTMENT OF CITY MANAGER:

The city council shall select and appoint by majority vote of at least four (4) affirmative
votes, an individual to serve as the city manager. Said individual shall perform such duties
and responsibilities as set forth in this title. In the absence of the city manager, a qualified
individual shall be appointed as the interim city manager. In the event the manager will be
absent from his or her position, or unable to perform the duties of the job for more than
three (3) consecutive weeks, the city council shall approve and appoint an interim city
manager. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.06.020: FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES:

The city manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of the city. He or
she shall have the power and duty to:

   A. Supervise the administration and enforcement of all laws, this code, and other
      ordinances of the city as they affect the administrative departments;

   B. Execute the policies affecting the administrative departments that are adopted by
      the city council;

   C. Conduct performance evaluations and administrative pay adjustments as prescribed
      by this code and other city ordinances or policy;

   D. Authorize the issuance of administrative rules and outline general administrative
      procedures;

   E. Investigate, examine, or inquire into the affairs or operations of any department or
      office; and when authorized by the city council, employ consultants and professional
      counsel to aid such investigations or inquiries;
F. Exercise general supervision over all public buildings, parks and other public
   property under the control and jurisdiction of the city;

G. Supervise the preparation and presentation of the annual budget for the city;

H. Direct activities relating to contracts for services for the city;

I. Examine performance requirements, delivery schedules and estimates of costs of
   various contracts involving the city, to ensure completeness and accuracy;

J. Prepare bids, specifications, progress reports and other items that may be required
   in connection with contracts, or proposed contracts, involving the city;

K. Review bids and proposals from other agencies for conformity to contract
   requirements and help determine acceptable bids and proposals;

L. Appoint and remove administrative assistants, including a chief administrative
   officer, and with the advice and consent of the city council, appoint department
   heads, all statutory officers, commissions, boards and committees of the city, except
   as may otherwise be specifically limited by law;

M. Remove department heads and officers and employees, commissions, boards and
   committees;

N. Exercise control of all departments, divisions and bureaus within the city
   government;

O. Attend all meetings of the city council with the right to take part in all discussions
   and the responsibility to inform the city council of the condition and needs of the
   municipality, and make recommendations and freely give advice to the city council;

P. Appoint a budget officer to serve in place of the city manager for the purpose of
   conforming with the requirements of the uniform municipal Fiscal Procedures Act
   for Utah Cities and in all other respects fulfill the requirements of that Act; (Ord.
   2016-09, 5-26-2016)

Q. Appoint, with the advice and consent of the City Council, a qualified person to each
   of the Offices of City Engineer, Recorder, Treasurer, Finance Director and Attorney;
   create any other offices as may be deemed necessary for good government, and
   make appointments to them; and regulate and prescribe the powers and duties of all
   other officers of the City, within the general provisions of law and ordinance; (Ord.
   2017-23, 10-5-2017)

R. Furnish the City Council with a report, periodically or as determined by ordinance,
   setting forth the amounts of all budget appropriations, the total disbursements to
   date from these appropriations, and the amount of indebtedness incurred or
      contracted against each appropriation (including disbursements and indebtedness
      incurred and not paid) and the percentage of the appropriations encumbered to
      date, which reports shall be made available for public inspections;

   S. Execute agreements within certified budget appropriations on behalf of the City, or
      delegate by written executive order the power to execute such agreements to
      executive officials, subject to the procedure described in Utah Code Annotated
      section 10-6-138;

   T. When necessary, call on the residents of the City over the age of twenty one (21)
      years to assist in enforcing the laws of the State and ordinances of the City; and

   U. Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this title or may be required by
      ordinance not inconsistent with the form of government. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.06.030: INTERGOVERNMENT COOPERATION:

   A. Information To City Council: The City Manager, or departments designated by the
      City Manager, shall provide such information concerning City finances, operations
      and procedures, as reasonably requested by the City Council and necessary for the
      City Council to fulfill its statutory duties, which are not privileged, private or
      confidential.

   B. Interference By Council Prohibited: No member of the City Council shall direct or
      request, except in writing, the appointment of any person to, or his removal from,
      office or to interfere in any way with the performance by the officers of their duties.
      The City Council shall not give orders to any subordinate of the City Manager either
      publicly or privately, but may make suggestions and recommendations regarding
      the work of subordinate employees to the City Manager.

   C. Investigations By Council Authorized: Nothing in this section shall prevent the City
      Council from appointing committees of its own members or citizens to conduct
      investigations into the conduct of any officer, department or agency of City
      government, or any matter relating to the welfare of this City, and delegating to
      these committees such power of inquiry as the City Council may deem necessary.
      (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)


                                   CHAPTER 2.07
                                APPOINTED OFFICERS

CHAPTER 2.07
APPOINTED OFFICERS
SECTION:
2.07.010: Departments
2.07.020: Office Creation
2.07.030: Vacancies
2.07.040: City Recorder
2.07.050: City Treasurer
2.07.060: City Attorney
2.07.070: City Engineer
2.07.080: City Finance Director

2.07.010: DEPARTMENTS:

The administration of the city shall be organized into an administration department, a
finance department, a community development departmentdepartments and/or divisions,
as directed by the city manager and approved by the city council. , and a courts division.
Each department shall be supervised by a department head, appointed by the city manager
with the advice and consent of the city council. Department heads shall be at will
employees of the city and shall serve at the pleasure of the city manager. The city may, from
time to time, have and maintain a public works department or may contract for the
performance of public works services, at the discretion of the city manager, and with the
concurrence of the city council. In the event the city maintains a public works department,
the head of that department shall be an at will employee of the city, appointed by the city
manager with the advice and consent of the city council. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.07.020: OFFICE CREATION:

The city council may create any office deemed necessary for the government of the city of
Holladay and shall, by resolution or ordinance, prescribe the power and duties to be
performed by appointed officials. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.07.030: VACANCIES:

The city manager, with the advice and consent of the city council, may appoint and fill
vacancies in all appointed offices provided for by law or ordinance. All appointed officers
shall continue in office until their successors are appointed and qualified. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-
26-2016)

2.07.040: CITY RECORDER:

   A. Appointment: On or before the first Monday in February following a municipal
      election, the mayor, The City Manager with the advice and consent of the city council
      shall appoint a qualified person to the office of city recorder. Bond: Before
      commencing his or her duties, the city recorder shall execute and file with the city
      treasurer a bond as provided in this title.

   B. Office: The city recorder shall occupy an office in the city hall or at some other place
      convenient thereto as the city council may direct.
   C. Corporate Seal: The city recorder shall keep the corporate seal. When certified by
      the city recorder under the corporate seal, copies of all papers filed in the city
      recorder's office and transcripts from all records of the city council shall be
      admissible in all courts as originals.

   D. Meetings Of City Council: The city recorder shall attend the meetings as assigned
      and keep the record of the proceedings of the city council.

   E. Actions Of The City Council: The city recorder shall record all ordinances,
      resolutions, and regulations passed by the city council in the manner provided in
      this title.

   F. Contracts: The city recorder shall countersign all contracts made on behalf of the
      city or to which the city is a party and shall maintain a properly indexed record of all
      such contracts.

    G. Bonds: The city recorder shall maintain a list of all outstanding bonds of the city,
       including their purpose, amount, terms, date and place payable.
  I. Monies: The city recorder shall pay into the city treasury all monies belonging to the
city coming into his or her hands by virtue of the recorder's office.

   H. Elections And Appointments: The city recorder shall manage all municipal election
      procedures and requirements as provided in the Utah Code Annotated, as amended,
      and shall keep a record of all persons elected or appointed to any office within the
      city, including the date of appointment or election, term of office, date of death,
      resignation, or removal, and name of person appointed to fill any vacancy.

   I. Limitations: The City Recorder shall not serve as the City Treasurer.

   J. Records Of The City: The City Recorder shall keep all the books, records, accounts
      and documents of the City at the Recorder's Office. Such records shall be open for
      public inspection pursuant to the provisions of the City of Holladay Government
      Records Access and Management Act. Retention schedules, reflect electronic
      records.

   K. Additional Duties: The City Recorder shall perform such other and further duties as
      the City Council may provide by ordinance, resolution, regulation or directive. (Ord.
      2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.07.050: CITY TREASURER:

   A. Appointment: On or before the first Monday in February following a Municipal
      election, The Mayor,City Manager with the advice and consent of the City Council
      shall appoint a qualified person to the Office of City Treasurer. (Ord. 2017-23, 10-5-
      2017)
 B. Bond Required: Before commencing his or her duties, the City Treasurer shall execute
and file with the City Recorder an official bond as required by this title.
   B. Custodian: The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money, bonds, or other
        securities belonging to the City.

   C. Collections: The City Treasurer shall ensure collections and receivept of all monies
      payable to the City, including taxes, assessments, licenses, fines, forfeitures, service
      charges, fees and other revenues of the City. The City Treasurer shall keep an
      accurate account of all monies received hereunder and shall verify the promptly
      deposit all such monies in the appropriate bank accounts of the City. The City
      Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the City separate and distinct from his
      or her own money.

   D. Receipts: The City Treasurer shall give or cause to be given to every person paying
      money to the City treasury, a receipt or other evidence of payment therefor,
      specifying the date of payment and the account paid. The City Treasurer shall file the
      duplicate of such receipt or evidence of payment in the Office of the City Recorder.

   E. Checks: The City Treasurer shall may sign all checks prepared by the Accounts
      Payable Clerk and shall, prior to affixing said signature, determine or cause to be
      determined that sufficient funds are on deposit in the appropriate bank account of
      the City to honor such check.

   F. Warrants: The City Treasurer shall ensure the payment of pay all warrants in the
      order in which presented and as money available for payment thereof in the
      appropriate funds of the City. The City Treasurer shall make provisions for the
      payment of all warrants issued prior to signing any subsequently issued checks.

   G. Special Assessments: The City Treasurer shall ensure receiptive all monies received
      by the City on any special assessment and shall apply the payments thereof to the
      cost of the improvement for which assessment was made.

   H. Accounting: The City Treasurer shall keep an accurate and detailed accounting of all
      transactions, receipts, collections, disbursements and other matters within the
      Treasurer's charge as provided by State law or as the City may by ordinance or
      resolution direct.

   I. Limitations: The City Treasurer shall not serve as the City Recorder.

   J. Additional Duties: The City Treasurer shall perform such other and further duties as
      the City Council may provide by ordinance, resolution, regulation or directive. (Ord.
      2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.07.060: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A. Appointment: The City Attorney shall be appointed by the City Manager, with the
      advice and consent of the Council. The City may contract with or retain an attorney
      licensed to practice law in the State of Utah. The City may make a separate contract
      with an attorney or attorneys for the performance of criminal prosecutorial legal
      services. All aAttorneys under contract with the City shall work under the general
      direction of the City Attorney, and the City Manager and shall communicate with the
      City Attorney and City Manager each other as necessary to properly correlate their
      efforts.

   B. Duties: The City Attorney shall act as legal advisor to the City in all matters
      pertaining to contracts with or by the City or questions of legality arising out of any
      law, ordinance or otherwise. The City Attorney or counsel designated by the City in
      consultation with the City Attorney shall appear on behalf of the City in all suits at
      law or in equity in which the City is a party, and shall prosecute or defend them, as
      the case may be, in all courts until they are finally disposed of. He or sheThe City
      Attorney shall advise all City officers in relation to their official duties, prepare and
      draft all such ordinances, resolutions and regulations as the City Council or City
      Manager may from time to time request and perform such other duties as the
      ordinances of the City and the general laws require or as the City Council may direct.
      The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the City Council and other meetings of
      the City when requested to do so. The City Attorney may, with the consent of the
      City Council, retain special counsel on matters pertaining to the legal affairs of the
      City compensated by the City. The City Attorney shall, when requested to do so,
      furnish written opinions on subjects submitted by the City Council or by the City
      Manager.

   C. Additional Duties: The City Attorney shall perform such other duties as the City
      Council may provide by ordinance, resolution, regulation, or directive. (Ord. 2016-
      09, 5-26-2016)

2.07.070: CITY ENGINEER:

The City Council may, by ordinance, establish the office of city engineer and prescribe the
duties and obligations for that office. Each person appointed as city engineer shall be a
registered professional engineer under Title 58, Chapter 22, Professional Engineers and
Professional Land Surveyors Licensing Act.

2.07.080: CITY FINANCE DIRECTOR:

   A. The City Council may, by ordinance, create a director of finance position to perform
      the financial duties and responsibilities of the city recorder as established by the
      Utah Fiscal Procedures Act.

   B. A director of finance:

       1. shall be:
          a. a qualified person; and

          b. appointed and removed by the city manager, with the advice and consent of
             the City Council; and

      2. may not assume the duties of the city or town treasurer.

   C. The legislative body may adopt the financial administrative duties of the director of
      finance prescribed in the Uniform Accounting Manual for Utah Cities.


                                       CHAPTER 2.08
                                       COMMITTEES

SECTION:
2.08.010: General

2.08.010: GENERAL:

   A. Intent And Purpose:

      1. It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to encourage citizen involvement and
         obtain citizen advice and input by creating certain committees, councils, and
         commissions of the City as hereinafter discussed. Any and all committees,
         councils or commissions established pursuant to this chapter have no authority
         to bind the City or impose any conditions on the City or its citizens.

      2. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent or preclude the City Manager from
         establishing or creating executive committees, task forces, etc., to give advice
         and recommendations to the Office of the City Manager.

   B. Composition; Appointment: Unless otherwise specifically stated in a committee,
      council or commission enabling ordinance, all committees, councils, and
      commissions established pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall should be
      composed of at least seven (7) members, all of whom shall be appointed by the City
      Manager with the advice and consent of the City Council. Committee members shall
      be residents of the City. The appointed members shall serve as the decision making
      body for the committee. Committees shall make reasonable efforts to assure that
      voting committee membership is comprised of an odd number of members. Each
      committee may seek nonvoting members/volunteers who desire to participate
      consistent with the purpose and/or mission of the respective committee.

   C. Term; Removal; Vacancies:
   1. Terms; Vacancies: Unless otherwise specifically stated in a committee, council or
      commission enabling section, the following provisions shall govern the
      membership on any committee, council or commission established pursuant to
      this chapter. The members shall serve for a term of three (3) years and may be
      removed by the City Manager only for cause, with the provision that the first
      appointment of two (2) members shall be for a term of one (1) year; the first
      appointment of the next two (2) members shall be for a term of two (2) years;
      the first appointment of the remaining member(s) shall be for a term of three (3)
      years; thereafter the members shall be appointed for three (3) year terms.
      Vacancies occurring through expiration of terms of appointment, death,
      disability, resignation or removal from the City, if applicable, shall be filled by
      appointment of the City Manager with the advice and consent of the City Council.
      Members shall not serve more than two (2) consecutive terms.

D. Rules Of Procedures; Meetings: Unless otherwise specifically stated in a committee,
   council or commission enabling section, each committee, council and commission
   established pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall formulate its own rules
   for the selection of a Chairman, time, place and manner of calling of meetings and
   other procedural matters; provided, that there shall be at least one (1) meeting of
   the committee, council or commission each quarter at City Hall, unless another a
   different location for a meeting is otherwise approved by the City Manager. Each
   committee shall prepare written minutes of all meetings which shall be approved by
   each committee at subsequent meetings. The original approved minutes shall be
   maintained in the Office of the City Recorder. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

E. Historical Commission: A Historical Commission is hereby created. The commission
   shall be composed of between five (5) andup to seven (7) members. Members shall
   be appointed by the City Manager, with the advice and consent of the City Council
   and shall serve terms of three (3) years. The initial terms of the members shall be
   staggered to provide for continuity. Members shall not serve for more than two (2)
   consecutive terms. Appointed members should, to the extent reasonably possible,
   represent all the council districts of the City. The purpose and duties of the
   commission shall be:

   1. To provide advice and information to the City Manager regarding the
      identification and protection documentation of local historic and archeological
      resources;

   2. To work towards the continuing education of citizens regarding community
      history;

   3. To research and preserve history of the areas that now comprise the City of
      Holladay and research and provide information regarding important historical
      figures that settled and lived in Holladay;

   4. To sponsor events to share the history of the area with residents of the City; and
   5. To researchidentify and preserve historic resources, including photographs,
      documents, and other media related to the area. (Ord. 2017-18, 6-15-2017)

F. Arts Council: An Arts Council is hereby created. The council shall be composed of
   between seven (7) andup to eleven (11) members. The council may also have non-
   voting ex-officio members as approved by the City Council. Members shall be
   appointed by the City Manager, with the advice and consent of the City Council and
   shall serve terms of three (3) years. The initial terms of the members shall be
   staggered to provide for continuity. Members shall not serve for more than two (2)
   consecutive terms. Appointed voting members should, to the extent reasonably
   possible, represent all the council districts of the City. The purpose and duties of the
   council shall be:

   1. To foster the visual and performing arts within the City of Holladay by creating
      opportunities for display and performance and by identifying those residents of
      the City with talent and ability that can benefit the community;

   2. To provide opportunities for the community to be benefitted by the performing
      and visual arts through the sponsorship and/or identification of community
      events providing such opportunities; and

   3. To provide advice and information to the City Council and City administration
      regarding ways and opportunities to enhance the quality of life within the City
      through the support of visual and performing arts.

G. Tree Committee: A Tree Committee is hereby created. The committee shall be
   composed of five to seven (7) members. The committee may also have non-voting
   ex-officio members as approved by the City Council. Members shall be appointed by
   the City Manager, with the advice and consent of the City Council and shall serve
   terms of three (3) years. The initial terms of the members shall be staggered to
   provide for continuity. Members shall not serve for more than two (2) consecutive
   terms, unless a suitable successor cannot be found. Appointed voting members
   should, to the extent reasonably possible, represent all the council districts of the
   City. The purpose and duties of the committee shall be:

   1. To encourage the planting, maintenance and preservation of the City's tree
      canopy for the benefit of City residents;

   2. To encourage and administer programs, as directed by the City Council from
      time to time, regarding the City's inventory of trees; and

   3. To provide recommendations for the planting of different species of trees on City
      property. (Ord. 2017-23, 10-5-2017)
                                CHAPTER 2.09
                      EMPLOYEE APPEALS HEARING OFFICER

SECTION:
2.09.010: Appointed

2.09.010: APPOINTED:

Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1106(7), the city hereby designates that the
hearing of employee appeals pursuant to the above referenced section shall be by a hearing
officer to be appointed by the city manager, with the advice and consent of the city council.
 The city manager may appoint the same hearing officer or officers designated to hear
appeals of land use matters pursuant to the land use and zoning ordinances of the city of
Holladay. The process utilized to hear employee appeals shall observe all required due
process protections and shall be conducted consistent with the provisions of Utah Code
Annotated section 10-3-1106(3) - (4). A final action or order of the hearing officer may be
reviewed by the Utah court of appeals by filing with that court a petition for review. (Ord.
2016-09, 5-26-2016)


                           CHAPTER 2.10
           GOVERNMENT RECORDS AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT ACT

SECTION:
2.10.010: Purpose And Intent; State Provisions Adopted
2.10.020: Records Custodian And Management
2.10.030: Limitation On Disposal Of Records
2.10.040: Denials
2.10.050: Appeals
2.10.060: City Records Review Board

2.10.060: Confidential Treatment Of Records For Which No Exemption Applies
2.10.070: Criminal Penalties; Liability For Damages

2.10.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT; STATE PROVISIONS ADOPTED:

   A. Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of the city council in enacting this chapter to
      adopt the provisions applicable to municipalities for the city of Holladay, guidelines
      and procedures for retention, and an appeals process in accordance with the
      government records access management act (hereinafter referred to as "GRAMA"),
      Utah Code Annotated, title 63G, chapter 2. All entities of the city shall comply with
      the provisions of this chapter and with GRAMA, and shall also comply with other
      federal and state statutory and regulatory recordkeeping requirements.
  B. Constitutional Rights: In enacting this chapter, the city council recognizes two (2)
     fundamental constitutional rights: the right of privacy in relation to personal data
     gathered by the city; and the public's right of access to information concerning the
     conduct of the public's business.

  C. Access Restricted: The city council also recognizes a public policy interest in
     allowing the city government to restrict access to certain records, as specified in this
     chapter, for the public good.

  D. Intent: It is the intent of the city council:

     1. That all records of the city, which are defined by applicable Utah statutory and
        case law as public records, shall be made available to citizens within a
        reasonable time after request and at a reasonable cost as set forth in this
        GRAMA;

     2. To establish and maintain an active, continuing program for the economical and
        efficient management of the city's records as provided in this chapter;

     3. To provide guidelines for both disclosure and restrictions on access to
        government records, which are based on the equitable weighing of the pertinent
        interests and which are consistent with nationwide standards of information
        practices; and

     4. Favor public access when, in the application of this chapter, countervailing
        interests are of equal weight.

  E. Adoption Of State Provisions: Utah Code Annotated title 63G, chapter 2, parts 1 and
     3; sections 63G-2-201; 63G-2-202; 63G-2-205; 63G-2-206; 63G-2-601; 63G-2-602;
     and are hereby adopted as part of the GRAMA of the city and are made part of this
     chapter as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.10.020: RECORDS CUSTODIAN AND MANAGEMENT:

  A. Records Custodian Designated: The city recorder is hereby designated the records
     custodian for purposes of GRAMA.

  B. Retention Schedule: For those records not covered under the Utah municipal
     general records retention schedule developed by the state archives, the city
     recorder shall develop a retention schedule as approved by the state records
     committee.

  C. Documents To State Archives: The city recorder shall provide to the state archives,
     all retention schedules, and all designations and classifications applied to record
     series maintained by the city, including a statement explaining the purposes for
       which record series designated private or controlled are collected and used by the
       city. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.10.030: LIMITATION ON DISPOSAL OF RECORDS:

   A. Specified: Any city record which has been requested in accordance with this chapter
      and GRAMA, that is disposable by an approved retention schedule, may not be
      disposed of until the request is granted and fulfilled, or sixty (60) days after the
      request is denied if no appeals are filed, or sixty (60) days after all appeals are
      completed, pursuant to section 2.10.050 of this chapter.

   B. Litigation Or Audit Pending: No city record, disposable by an approved retention
      schedule, which is subject to pending litigation or audit shall be disposed of until the
      litigation or audit has been completed or resolved. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.10.040: DENIALS:

   A. Notice Of Denial: If the city denies a records request, in whole or in part, it shall
      provide a notice of denial to the requester either in person or by sending the notice
      to the requester's address as provided.

   B. Content: The notice of denial shall contain the following information:

       1. A description of the record or portions of the record to which access was denied;
          provided, that the description does not disclose private, controlled or protected
          information, or information exempt from disclosure;

       2. Citations to the provision of this chapter, court rule or order, GRAMA, or another
          state statute, federal statute, or federal regulation that exempts the record or
          portions of the record from disclosure; provided, that the citations do not
          disclose private, controlled or protected information or information exempt
          from disclosure;

       3. A statement that the requester has the right to appeal the denial;

       4. The time limits for filing an appeal, and the address where an appeal is filed.
          (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.10.050: APPEALS:

Authorized: Persons aggrieved by the city's classification or designation of a record, or of
an access decision or by a response to a record request may appeal the determination to
the City Manager.records review board in accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Ann.
Section 63G-2-401..
  B. Content: The appellant shall set forth in writing the nature and date of the request,
attaching a copy of the request for, if available, and setting out the basis and legal authority
for the request.
  C. Time Limit For Filing: An appeal under this section shall be brought within thirty (30)
calendar days of the date of the action aggrieved, or of the date when the person grieving
reasonably should have become aware of the action. All appeals shall be filed in the city
recorder's office.
  D. Hearing Scheduled: No later than three (3) days after receiving a notice of appeal, the
city recorder shall schedule a hearing before the records review board which shall be held
no sooner than fifteen (15) days and no later than thirty (30) days from the date of the
filing of the appeal.
  E. Testimony, Evidence: At the hearing, the records review board shall allow the parties
to testify, present evidence and comment on the issues. The records review board may
allow other interested persons to comment on the issues.
  F. Order Of Disclosure: The records review board may, upon consideration and weighing
of the various interests and public policies pertinent to the classification and disclosure or
nondisclosure, order the disclosure of information properly classified as private or
protected if the interests favoring access outweigh the interest favoring restriction of
access. In making such disclosure, the mayor/records review board may limit the
requestor's use and further disclosure of a record as provided in Utah Code Annotated
section 63G-2-403(11)(c).
  G. Time Limit For Determination: The records review board shall make a determination
on any appeal within five (5) business days after the hearing. The records review board
shall issue a signed order either granting the petition, in whole or in part, or upholding the
initial determination of the city. The order of the records review board shall include:
    1. A statement of reasons for the decision;
    2. A description of the record or portions of the record to which access was ordered or
denied; provided, that the description does not disclose private, controlled or protected
information;
    3. A statement that any party to the appeal may appeal the decision of the records
review board to district court within thirty (30) days after the date of the order; and
    4. A brief summary of the appeal and a notice that, in order to protect its right on
appeal, the party may wish to seek advice from an attorney.
  H. Appeal To District Court: Appeal of any final decision may be made to the district
court, in accordance with GRAMA and the Utah rules of civil procedure. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-
26-2016)

2.10.060: CITY RECORDS REVIEW BOARD:
  A. Appointment: The records review board shall consist of three (3) individuals
appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, at least one of
which shall be a present employee or officer of the city, and the remaining two (2) shall be
members of the public, one of which shall have professional experience with requesting or
managing records who are not past or present employees or officers of the city.
  B. Term: The initial board members shall be appointed to staggered terms so that one is
appointed to a one year term, one is appointed to a two (2) year term and one is appointed
to a three (3) year term. The successors of the initial board shall be appointed for a term of
three (3) years, except when a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the
replacement shall be appointed for the expired term. Members of the board may be
removed by the mayor with consent of the city council for cause. Appointment to the board
shall be limited to two (2) successive terms.
  C. Chairperson; Rules: The board shall elect a chairperson who shall preside at all
hearings conducted by the board. The board may adopt reasonable rules and procedures
for the conduct of appeals heard before the board. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.10.060: CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT OF RECORDS FOR WHICH NO EXEMPTION
APPLIES:

Notwithstanding the provisions regarding classifications and right of access contained in
this chapter, the city reserves the right to request a court to restrict access to a record
under Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-405. (Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.10.070: CRIMINAL PENALTIES; LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:

   A. Prohibited Disclosure; Defenses: A city employee or other person who has lawful
      access to any private, controlled or protected record under this chapter, and who
      intentionally discloses or provides a copy of a private, controlled or protected
      record to any person knowing that such disclosure is prohibited, is guilty of a class B
      misdemeanor. It is a defense under this subsection that:

       1. The person released the information in the reasonable belief that the disclosure
          of the information was necessary to expose a violation of law involving
          government corruption, abuse of office, or misappropriation of public funds or
          property; or

       2. The record could have lawfully been released to the recipient if it had been
          properly classified.

   B. Prohibited Access: A person who by false pretenses, bribery or theft gains access to
      or obtains a copy of any private, controlled or protected record to which they are
      not legally entitled is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. No person shall be guilty
      under this subsection who receives the record, information or copy after the fact
      and without prior knowledge of or participation in the false pretenses, bribery or
      theft.

   C. Limitation Of Liability: In accordance with GRAMA, neither the city nor any of its
      agencies, officers, or employees shall be liable for damages resulting from the
      release of a record where the requester presented evidence of authority to obtain
      the record, even if it may be subsequently determined that the requester had no
      such authority.

   D. Intentional Refusal: A city employee who intentionally refuses to release a record
      the disclosure of which the employee knows is required by law or by final
       unappealed order of the city or a court is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. (Ord.
       2016-09, 5-26-2016)


                                      CHAPTER 2.11
                                     PROCUREMENT

SECTION:
2.11.010: Purpose
2.11.020: Application And Compliance
2.11.030: General Guidelines
2.11.040: Definitions
2.11.050: Bid Evaluation
2.11.060: Responsibility Of Bidders And Offerors
2.11.070: Right To Inspect Facilities And Audit Records
2.11.080: Reporting Of Anticompetitive Practices
2.11.090: Prequalification
2.11.100: Competitive Sealed Bidding
2.11.110: Competitive Sealed Proposals (RFP)
2.11.120: Minimal Purchases
2.11.130: Small Purchases
2.11.140: State Contract Purchasing
2.11.150: Recent Purchases By Another Government Agency
2.11.160: Contracting For Designated Professional Services
2.11.170: Contracts With Other Governmental Entities
2.11.180: Sole Source Procurement
2.11.190: Emergencies, Public Threats And Unforeseen Conditions
2.11.200: Procurement Protests
2.11.210: Sanctions
2.11.220: Remedies For Solicitations Or Awards In Violation Of Law
2.11.230: Routine Expenditures
2.11.240: Payroll Obligations
2.11.240: Providing Information And Records
2.11.250: Blanket Purchase Order
2.11.260: Administrative Regulations And Policies
2.11.270: Authorized Contract Types
2.11.280: Signing Authority
2.11.290: Disposal Of Surplus Property

2.11.010: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that the City purchases goods and services in a
manner that ensures that all such purchases are made fairly, equitably, efficiently, and
economically and in the best interest of its residents. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)
2.11.020: APPLICATION AND COMPLIANCE:

   A. This chapter applies to agreements for the procurement of supplies, services and
      construction entered into by the City. This chapter applies to every expenditure of
      public funds by the City for public purchasing irrespective of the source of the funds.
      Any expenditure involving Federal funds shall comply with applicable Federal law
      and regulations. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the City from complying with
      the terms and conditions of any grant, gift or bequest that is otherwise consistent
      with law.

   B. The City may take any action with respect to purchasing, bidding and contracting
      that is in the best interest of the City, including rejecting any bid from a bidder in an
      adverse position to the City in a present, pending or threatened litigation. The City
      may also reject a nonresponsive bid, and may reject bids when the City's interest
      will be served, unless this rejection would be contrary to existing law or be
      considered arbitrary. Finally, the City may waive or modify requirements within a
      particular bid process when it is in the best interest of the City, and when it is
      consistent with mandatory applicable legal requirements and fair and equitable
      practices. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.030: GENERAL GUIDELINES:

   A. The City Manager may act as the Purchasing Agent. The City Manager may delegate
      authority to purchase certain supplies, services or construction items to other City
      officials, if the delegation is necessary for the effective procurement of those items.
      The City Manager may designate a Purchasing Agent whose duties include
      procurement, soliciting bids and proposals, advising City departments regarding
      procurements, maintaining a bidders' list and vendor files, as well as records
      needed for purchasing. Responsibility rests with employees who purchase goods
      and services, department directors, and the City Manager.

   B. Purchasing Agent or any department or division may prepare, file or amend
      specifications, requisitions or quantity estimates for supplies and services.

      1.      1. Purchases not exceediless than ng five ten thousand dollars ($5,000.00
           $10,000) may be made with the approval of department directors or the city
           manager, with or without competitive sealed bids or quotes. Departments
           should take reasonable steps to assure fair pricing.

      2. Subject to the provisions of section 2.11.130, Purchases between five ten
         thousand dollars ($510,000.00) and twenty seventy- five thousand dollars
         ($2575,000.00) shall be made only after soliciting at least three (3) formal
         quotes or completing the competitive sealed bidding process.
       3. All purchases of or exceeding seventy twenty five thousand dollars
          ($2575,000.00) shall be made only after completing the competitive sealed
          bidding process. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.040: DEFINITIONS:

BUSINESS: Any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, individual, sole
proprietorship, joint stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.

BUSINESS DAY: Any day when the city administration offices are open for public business.

CONSTRUCTION: The process of building, altering, repairing, improving, or demolishing
any public structure or building, or other public improvements of any kind to any public
real property. It does not include the routine repair or routine maintenance of existing
structures, buildings, or real property.

CONTRACTOR: Any person having an agreement with the city.

DEPARTMENT: Any city department, commission, committee, board, or agency requiring
the procurement of supplies, services, or construction pursuant to this chapter.

DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: The city's appointed director of finance.

EMPLOYEE: An individual drawing a salary or wages from the city, whether elected or not;
any noncompensated individual performing personal services for the city or any
department, agency, commission, council, board, or any other entity established by the
executive or legislative branch of the city; and any individual serving as an elected official
of the city.

INVITATION FOR BIDS: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by reference,
utilized for soliciting sealed bids.

MANAGER: The city's appointed manager.

PERSON: Any business, individual, union, committee, club, other organization, or group of
individuals.

PROCUREMENT: The buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, or otherwise acquiring of any
supplies, services, or construction, including description of requirements, selection, and
solicitation of sources, preparation and award of agreement, and all phases of agreement
administration.

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: Those services that are provided by a person skilled in the
practice of a learned or technical discipline. Providers of professional services often require
prolonged and specialized intellectual training, and profess attainments in special
knowledge as distinguished from mere skills. Disciplines may include, but are not limited
to, accounting, auditing, court reporting, experts in a specialized field, finance, law,
materials testing, medicine, and others.

PUBLIC AGENCY: A public entity subject to or created by the city.

PURCHASING AGENT: The city manager or other persons designated in this chapter to
procure supplies, services, or construction on behalf of the city.

REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS OR RFP: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, utilized for soliciting proposals.

RESPONSIBLE BIDDER OR OFFEROR: A person who has the capability in all respects to
perform fully the agreement requirements, and the experience, integrity, reliability,
capacity, facilities, equipment, and credit which will assure good faith performance.

RESPONSIVE BIDDER: A person who has submitted a bid which conforms in all material
respects to the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids.

SERVICES: The furnishing of labor, time, or effort by any person, including professional
services.

SUPPLIES: All property, including, without limitation, equipment, materials, printing,
insurance, and leases of real property, but excluding land or a permanent interest in land.
(Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.050: BID EVALUATION:

   A. Generally: Bids, proposals, and related matters shall be evaluated using the criteria
      in this section.

   B. City's Evaluation Process: When evaluating matters, the city shall consider the
      following:

       1. Solicitation Criteria: The city shall consider the evaluation criteria stated in a bid
          or proposal package or other solicitation document.

       2. Policy Criteria: As further described in this section, the city shall consider
          whether a bid, proposal or other offer or submission is responsive to the city's
          request; whether the bidder or offeror is responsible; and whether any element
          conflicts with the other criteria of this chapter.

           a. Due Diligence: The city may take steps as it deems appropriate to verify and
              determine any matter. The city shall determine in its sole discretion what
              steps may be appropriate in light of the matters being considered and the
              resources of the city. The failure to discover any matter shall not preclude
              any subsequent evaluation or action.
b. Records: In the manner it shall determine, the purchasing agent shall retain
   in the procurement file records relevant to a solicitation or award; provided,
   however, that if the award contract is approved by resolution of the city
   council, the city recorder shall keep the procurement file records.

c. Evaluating Responsiveness: To be responsive, a bid, proposal or other offer
   or submission must conform in all material respects to the terms of the city's
   solicitation documents. Such terms may include, without limitation, using bid
   forms, mandatory submittals, required securities, and appropriate
   substantive responses. Ministerial errors and other matters in a bid, proposal
   or other offer or submission will not necessarily render it nonresponsive,
   and the purchasing agent shall review such matters and determine whether
   the submission is responsive. The purchasing agent may evaluate
   responsiveness based on any additional reasonable criteria.

d. Evaluating Responsibility: To be responsible, a bidder or offeror must have
   the capability in all respects to fully perform the agreement requirements,
   and the integrity, capacity and reliability which will assure timely, proper
   performance.

e. Factors: The city may consider any relevant factors when evaluating
   responsibility, including, without limitation, the following:

       i. The bidder's capacity to perform the contractual requirements,
          including whether the bidder has available appropriate financial,
          material, equipment, facility and personnel resources and expertise,
          or the ability to obtain them. Without limitation, capacity may also
          include legal capacity to enter agreements, the ability to perform
          within required times, or the ability to perform any necessary future
          service and maintenance.

       ii. The bidder's ability, skill and quality of performance.

      iii. The bidder's character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience
           and efficiency.

      iv. The bidder's ability to work cooperatively with the city, including,
          without limitation, whether the bidder has previously failed to comply
          with city agreements or other requirements; nonpayment of sums due
          to the city; poor working relationships with or adversarial actions
          against the city; prior suspension or other proceedings by the city
          against the bidder; or failure to assist the city in determining
          responsibility.
f. Making A Determination: The submission of any bid, proposal or other offer
   or submission constitutes an agreement by the bidder or offeror to
   reasonably assist the city with its determination of responsibility.

g. Effect Of Determination: The city's determination of responsibility relates
   solely to a bidder's overall ability to perform for a specific procurement, and
   is not a general assessment of a bidder's capabilities.

h. Evaluating Specific Matters: For any bid, proposal, other offer, or submission:

         i. Tie Bids: Tie bids occur when identical prices are submitted from
            responsive and responsible bidders and that price is the low bid. The
            purchasing agent shall make an award in a manner that is beneficial to
            the city, and may make an award in a manner that will discourage tie
            bids. Such may include:

            (A) Award to the person closest to the point of delivery.

            (B) Award to the person who previously held the agreement.

            (C) Award to the person with the earliest delivery date.

        ii. Only One Bid Received: If the city receives only one responsive bid,
            proposal or other offer or submission, the city may make an award to
            that bidder or offeror if the purchasing agent determines that the bid,
            proposal or other offer or submission is fair and reasonable and
            conforms to all applicable requirements, and that other prospective
            bidders or offerors had reasonable opportunity to respond or that
            there is not adequate time for a resolicitation. The written
            determination and basis for decision by the purchasing agent shall be
            placed in the procurement file. Alternatively, the city may reject the
            sole bid, proposal or other offer or submission.

i.   Inspections And Tests: The city may perform inspections, tests and other
     evaluations in any manner conducive to the city's interest, including, without
     limitation, the use of third parties. All prospective and actual recipients of a
     bid or agreement shall provide all reasonable assistance and information
     required by the city to perform any such inspection, test or other evaluation.

j.   Modifying Submissions: After the time for submission, a bid, proposal or
     other offer or submission may be modified as follows:

         i. Confirmation: When it appears a mistake has been made, or when the
            city desires an assurance of any matter, the city may request a bidder
            or offeror to confirm in writing such bid, proposal or other offer or
            submission.
ii. Notification Of Error: A bidder or offeror shall notify the purchasing
    agent of any error contained in a bid, proposal or other offer or
    submission within two (2) business days after bid opening or the time
    for submitting proposals unless the purchasing agent waives this
    requirement. The purchasing agent shall have sole discretion to
    determine whether to permit any such modification or withdrawal.

iii. Modifications By Agreement: The purchasing agent may agree with a
     bidder or offeror to any modifications so long as they do not prejudice
     fair competition or the city's interests. Modifications may include such
     matters as the following:

    (A) Time For Accepting: The purchasing agent and bidder or offeror
        may agree that a bid, proposal or other offer or submission will
        remain effective for a longer period of time than that stated in the
        bid, proposal or other offer or submission.

    (B) Subcontractor Or Supplier Changes: Any proposed change in
        subcontractors or suppliers must be submitted to the purchasing
        agent, and the purchasing agent may reject any such proposed
        change. The bidder or offeror will receive no additional
        compensation as a result of a change to any subcontractors or
        suppliers, and must continue to meet the requirements of any
        federally mandated program and other contractual and legal
        requirements.

    (C) Change In Specifications: The purchasing agent and bidder or
        offeror may agree to a change in specifications when such change
        is in the city's interest, is reasonably related to the work originally
        solicited, and would not be prejudicial to fair competition.

    (D) City's Correction Of Ministerial Mistakes: The purchasing agent
        may at any time correct mistakes in a bid or proposal that are of a
        ministerial or minor nature. Ministerial or minor informalities are
        clerical errors and matters of form rather than substance that are
        evident from the document, or insignificant mistakes or
        informalities that can be waived or corrected without prejudice to
        other bidders or offerors. They generally do not have a substantial
        effect on price. Examples include a failure to:

       (1) Sign the bid, proposal, or other submissions requiring
           signature, but only where they are accompanied by other
           materials indicating intent to be bound.
                         (2) Acknowledge receipt of an addendum, but only if the materials
                             demonstrate the bidder or offeror received the addendum and
                             intended to be bound by it, or the addendum has a negligible
                             effect on the bid, proposal or other offer or submission.

                     (E) City's Correction Of Mistakes Where The Intent Is Evident: If the
                         intent of the bid, proposal or other offer or submission is clearly
                         evident on the face of the document, the purchasing agent shall
                         correct it as intended and it may not be withdrawn. Examples
                         include:

                         (1) Typographical errors. Errors in extending unit prices.
                             Transposition errors. Arithmetical errors.

                         (2) Differences in written and numerical prices (written shall
                             control).

                     (F) No Withdrawal For Mistakes Where Intent Is Not Evident: If the
                         bidder or offeror's intent is not clearly evident on the face of the
                         document, the bid, proposal or other offer or submission may not
                         be withdrawn except as agreed by the purchasing agent.

                     (G) Correcting Errors In Judgment: Errors in judgment may not be
                         corrected, and the bid, proposal or other offer or submission may
                         not be withdrawn, except as agreed by the purchasing agent. The
                         purchasing agent may allow correction of an error in judgment if it
                         can be done without prejudice to other bidders or offerors. The
                         purchasing agent may allow withdrawal if it is in the city's
                         interest. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.060: RESPONSIBILITY OF BIDDERS AND OFFERORS:

Bid and performance bonds or other security as specified on the city's bid form are
required on all construction contracts in excess of twenty five one hundred thousand
dollars ($25,000.00100,000) (or such lesser threshold as may be required from time to
time by state law) and may be requested for supply agreements or service agreements as
the purchasing agent deems advisable to protect the city's interests. Any such bonding
requirements shall be set forth in the solicitation. Bid or performance bonds shall not be
used as a substitute for a determination of a bidder or offeror's responsibility. (Ord. 2016-
28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.070: RIGHT TO INSPECT FACILITIES AND AUDIT RECORDS:

The city may, at reasonable times:
   A. Inspect the part of the plant, place of business, or worksite of a contractor or
      subcontractor which the city determines is pertinent to the performance of any
      agreement awarded or to be awarded by the city; and

   B. Audit the books, accounting and any applicable records of any contractor or
      subcontractor. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.080: REPORTING OF ANTICOMPETITIVE PRACTICES:

When for any reason collusion or other anticompetitive practices are suspected among any
bidders or offerors, a notice of the relevant facts shall be transmitted to the city attorney.
(Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.090: PREQUALIFICATION:

Where deemed appropriate by the city, bidders, proponents and/or suppliers may be
prequalified for particular types of supplies, services and construction to determine the
responsibility of such persons.

   A. Standard Of Responsibility: Factors to be considered in determining whether the
      standard of responsibility has been met by a bidder or supplier in connection with a
      prequalification include:

       1. Availability of the appropriate financial, material, equipment, facility and
          personnel resources and expertise, or the ability to obtain them, necessary to
          indicate the capability of the bidder or supplier to meet all contractual
          requirements;

       2. A satisfactory record of performance;

       3. A satisfactory record of integrity;

       4. Legal qualifications to contract with the city; and

       5. Whether all necessary information has been supplied in connection with the
          inquiry concerning responsibility.

   B. Information Pertaining To Responsibility: In connection with a proposed
      prequalification, the bidder, proponent or supplier shall supply information
      requested by the city concerning the responsibility of such person. If such
      information is not supplied, the city shall base its determination of responsibility
      upon any available information or may find the bidder or supplier nonresponsible if
      such failure is unreasonable, as determined by the city. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.100: COMPETITIVE SEALED BIDDING:
A. Conditions For Use: All city purchases shall beThe city may use competitive sealed
   bidding or other processes designed to assure competitive bidding awarded and
   obtained by competitive sealed bidding except as otherwise provided in this
   chapter.

B. Invitation For Bids: Each competitive sealed bid proceeding shall be commenced by
   the purchasing agent or designee issuing an invitation for bids, which shall include
   specifications and all contractual terms and conditions applicable to the
   procurement, and otherwise shall be in compliance with this chapter. All
   specifications shall be drafted so as to promote overall economy for the purposes
   intended and to encourage competition in satisfying the city's needs, and shall not
   be unduly restrictive. The policy set forth in this section applies to all specifications
   including, without limitation, those prepared for the city by architects, engineers,
   designers, and draftsmen.

C. Public Notice: All noticing shall be processed through the city recorder or designee.
   Adequate public notice of the invitation for bids shall be given for a reasonable time,
   and not less than five (5) working days prior to the date set forth therein for the
   opening of bids. Such notice may include publication in a newspaper of general
   circulation a reasonable time prior to bid opening. Notice will be shared on the
   public notice website and on other websites and in other appropriate forums.
   Notice may also be shared directly with potential providers or vendors. The public
   notice shall state the place, date, and time of bid opening.

D. Bid Opening: All bids shall be accepted and opened by the city recorder or designee.
   Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more witnesses at the time
   and place designated in the invitation for bids. The amount of each bid, the name of
   each bidder, and such other relevant information as the purchasing agent deems
   appropriate, shall be recorded; the record and each bid shall be open to public
   inspection.

E. Bid Acceptance And Evaluation: Bids shall be unconditionally accepted without
   alteration or correction, except as authorized in this chapter. Bids shall be evaluated
   based on the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids, which may include,
   without limitation, criteria to determine acceptability such as inspection, testing,
   quality, workmanship, delivery, and suitability for a particular purpose. The
   invitation for bids shall set forth the evaluation criteria to be used. No criteria may
   be used in bid evaluation that are not set forth in the invitation for bids. Those
   criteria that will affect the bid price and be considered in evaluation for award (such
   as discounts, transportation costs, and total or life cycle costs) shall be objectively
   measurable.

F. Correction Or Withdrawal Of Bids; Cancellation Of Awards: Correction or
   withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids before or after bid opening, or
   cancellation of awards or agreements based on such bid mistakes, may be permitted
   by the purchasing agent where appropriate. Mistakes discovered before bid opening
     may be modified or withdrawn by written, digital or facsimile notice received in the
     office designated in the invitation for bids prior to the time set for bid opening. After
     bid opening, corrections in bids shall be permitted only to the extent that the bidder
     can show by clear and convincing evidence that a mistake of a nonjudgmental
     character was made, the nature of the mistake, and the bid price actually intended.
     After the bid opening, no changes in bid prices or other provisions of bids
     prejudicial to the interest of the city or fair competition shall be permitted. In lieu of
     bid correction, a low bidder alleging a material mistake of fact may be permitted to
     withdraw its bid if:

     1. The mistake is clearly evident on the face of the bid document but the intended
        correct bid is not similarly evident; or

     2. The bidder submits evidence which clearly and convincingly demonstrates that a
        mistake was made. All decisions to permit the correction or withdrawal of bids,
        or to cancel awards or agreements based on bid mistakes, shall be supported by
        a written determination made by the purchasing agent.

  G. Award: Award shall be made with reasonable promptness by written reasonable
     notice to the lowest responsible and responsive bidder whose bid meets the
     requirements and criteria set forth in the invitation for bids, unless otherwise
     provided for in this chapter. Such notice shall be sent by mail, facsimile
     transmission, electronic mail and/or by posting on the city's website.

  H. Multistep Sealed Bidding: When it is considered impractical to prepare an initial
     purchase description to support an award based on price, an invitation for bids may
     be issued requesting the submission of unpriced offers to be followed by an
     invitation for bids limited to those bidders whose offers have been determined to be
     technically acceptable under the criteria set forth in the first solicitation.

  I. Cancellation Of Invitation For Bids: An invitation for bids or other solicitation may
     be canceled, or any or all bids or proposals may be rejected in whole or in part, as
     may be specified in the solicitation, when it is in the city's interest. Each solicitation
     issued by the city shall state that the solicitation may be canceled and that any bid or
     proposal may be rejected in whole or in part when in the best interests of the city.
     Notice of cancellation shall be sent to all persons responding to the solicitation,
     which notice shall identify the solicitation, explain the reason for cancellation and,
     where appropriate, explain that an opportunity will be given to compete on any
     resolicitation or any future procurement of similar items. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-
     2016)

2.11.110: COMPETITIVE SEALED PROPOSALS (RFP):

  A. Conditions For Use: When the purchasing agent determines in writing that the use
     of competitive sealed bidding is either not practicable or not advantageous to the
     city, a purchase may be made by use of the competitive sealed proposals method
     described in this section.

  B. Request For Proposals: Competitive sealed proposals shall be solicited through a
     request for proposals ("RFP").

  C. Public Notice: Adequate public notice of the RFP shall be given in the same manner
     as provided in subsection 2.11.100C of this chapter.

  D. Receipt Of Proposals: No proposal's contents, except for the names of the offerors,
     shall be disclosed to competing offerors during the process of negotiation. A register
     of proposals shall be prepared containing the name of each offeror, the number of
     modifications received, if any, and a description sufficient to identify the item
     offered. The register of proposals shall be open for public inspection only after
     award.

  E. Evaluation Factors: The RFP shall state the relative importance of price and other
     evaluation factors, including the quantitative basis for evaluation. No criteria may be
     used in an RFP response evaluation that is not set forth in the RFP.

  F. Discussion With Responsible Offerors And Revisions To Proposals: As provided in
     the RFP, discussions may be conducted with responsible offerors who submit
     proposals determined to have a reasonable chance of being selected in order to
     clarify and assure full understanding of, and conformance to, the solicitation
     requirements. Offerors shall be accorded fair and equal treatment to discuss and
     revise proposals in writing and such written revisions may be permitted after
     submissions and prior to award to obtain best and final offers. In conducting such
     discussions, there shall be no disclosure of any information derived from proposals
     submitted by competing offerors, except for the names of the offerors.

  G. Award: Award shall be made to the responsible offeror whose proposal is
     determined in writing to be the most advantageous to the city, taking into
     consideration price and the evaluation factors set forth in the RFP. No other factors
     or criteria shall be used in the evaluation. The file shall contain the basis on which
     the award is made.

  H. Cancellation Of An RFP: An RFP or other solicitation may be canceled, or any or all
     bids or proposals may be rejected in whole or in part, as may be specified in the
     solicitation, when it is in the best interests of the city. Each solicitation issued by the
     city shall state that the solicitation may be canceled and that any bid or proposal
     may be rejected in whole or in part when in the city's best interest. Notice of
     cancellation shall be sent to all persons responding to the solicitation. (Ord. 2016-
     28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.120: MINIMAL PURCHASES:
A. Applicability: This section applies to the purchase of goods, supplies, materials,
   equipment or services having a total value of not more than five ten thousand
   dollars ($5,000.00$10,000). So long as funds used for such purchases are part of the
   approved annual budget for the department making the purchase, purchases may be
   approved.

   1. Purchases of operational or construction related supplies or nonprofessional
      services having a total value of less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).

   2.      2. Purchases of professional services having a total value of less than sixty
        thousand dollars ($60,000.00), but only when such purchase is approved in
        writing in advance by the department director, the purchasing agent and the
        Director of Finance and Administration.

   3.      3. Purchases of construction work, but not architectural and engineering
        services, having a total value of less than thirty-five thousand dollars
        ($35,000.00), but only when such purchase is approved in writing in advance by
        the department director, the purchasing agent and the Director of Finance and
        Administration.

   1.4.       4. Purchases of building improvements or public works projects having a
       total value of less than thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000.00).

A.B.       Required Accounting Procedures: Any department making purchases under
   this section shall implement and follow accounting procedures that are acceptable
   to the Finance Director.

B.C.        Agreement: Any purchases of professional services or construction under
    this section shall be formalized using an agreement, and such agreement shall state
    the minimum terms necessary to protect the City’s interest. The fully executed
    agreement shall be filed with the City Recorder’s Office.

C.D.       Authorized Parties: Only the purchasing agent, department heads and
   employees designated by department heads may make minimal purchases under
   this section.

D.E.     Procedure: Minimal purchases may be made by any reasonable means.
   Documentation shall be retained by the purchaser and archived in the individual
   department's purchase records to demonstrate reasonableness.

E.F.        Manipulation Prohibited: Purchases shall not be artificially divided into
    smaller amounts to fall within this section. Such prohibition includes, without
    limitation, awarding numerous purchases to a single person for substantially similar
    performances, or by dividing the work required for a single project solely for
    purposes of making use of this section. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)
2.11.130: SMALL PURCHASES:

   A. Applicability: The following purchases may be made by the authorized parties set
      forth in subsection B., below:This section applies to the purchase of goods, supplies,
      materials, equipment or services, having a total value of not more than twenty five
      thousand dollars ($25,000.00), when such purchase is approved in writing in
      advance by the head of the department making the purchase and the manager. So
      long as funds being used are available under the approved budget, no other
      approval is required.
      1. Contracts for operational or construction related supplies or nonprofessional
          services having a total value of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and not more
          than seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000.00).

      2. Purchases of building improvements having a total value of thirty-five thousand
         dollars ($35,000.00) and not more than the bid limit specified in Section 11-39-
         101(1) of the Utah Code Annotated. the definition of “bid limit” in
         section 3.10.030 of this chapter.

      3. Purchases of public works projects having a total value of thirty-five thousand
         dollars ($35,000.00) and not more than the bid limit specified in Section 11-39-
         101 of the Utah Code Annotated. the definition of “bid limit” in
         section 3.10.030 of this chapter.

   A.B.       Authorized Parties: Only the purchasing agent, department heads and
      employees designated by department heads shall make small purchases as defined
      in this section. In making small purchases, the following procedures shall be used in
      lieu of a bid or proposal process:

      1. Solicitation And Award: Purchases shall be made by soliciting quotes from no
         fewer than three (3) vendors. Such solicitation may be completed in any
         reasonable manner including, without limitation, telephone inquiry, internet
         search or other price comparison. Award shall be made to the vendor offering
         the lowest responsible quotation.

      2. Records: Any department making a small purchase shall retain a record of the
         names of the prospective vendors contacted, those offering quotations, and the
         date and amount of each quotation, and shall document all quotes received.

   B.C.        Manipulation Prohibited: Purchases shall not be artificially divided to fall
       within this section. Such prohibition includes, without limitation, awarding
       numerous purchases to a single person for substantially similar performances, or by
       dividing the work required for a single project solely for purposes of making use of
       this section.

   C.D.       Small Purchase Modifications And Renewals: Any agreement solicited under
      this section shall not be modified in excess of the maximum dollar limit specified
        above, or renewed on a successive basis with the same party, without written
        approval of the purchasing agent or the manager. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.140: STATE CONTRACT PURCHASING:

Because an appropriate bid procedure has already been completed by the state of Utah, any
item that is a state contract or cooperative pricing contract item may be purchased without
following any otherwise applicable bid requirements, provided that the purchasing agent
or department head making the purchase shall document the state contract number used
and record that information in the purchase file. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.150: RECENT PURCHASES BY ANOTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCY:

When purchasing supplies, material or equipment from a vendor who has been awarded a
bid for the same items from another governmental entity within the preceding ninety (90)
days, the price paid by the other governmental entity shall be deemed to be the lowest
price available for such items and the city need not follow any other bidding requirements,
provided that the purchasing agent or department head making the purchase shall
maintain in the purchase file appropriate documentation demonstrating compliance with
the requirements of this section. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.160: CONTRACTING FOR DESIGNATED PROFESSIONAL SERVICES:

The city may procure the services of financial and legal advisors, planners, architects,
engineers, accountants, physicians, dentists, veterinarians, and construction managers as
defined by the laws of the state of Utah, and similar other professional services, as
negotiated based on demonstrated competence and qualification and at fair and reasonable
prices. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.170: CONTRACTS WITH OTHER GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES:

Whenever the city agrees to make purchases together with another governmental entity,
and the agreement is entered in compliance with the solicitation procedures of that other
entity, the city shall be deemed to have complied with the city's solicitation requirements.
Contracted services from other governmental entities are exempt from any requirements
to obtain bids or quotes. Unless not legally required, all contracts with other governmental
entities shall comply with the Utah Iinterlocal cCooperation act 1 and shall be approved by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

Notes
 1         1. UCA § 11-13-101 et seq.

2.11.180: SOLE SOURCE PROCUREMENT:

   A. Definition: Without limitation, sole source procurement may arise when:
       1. The city needs a supply or service of a unique or specialized nature, and only one
          known supplier is reasonably available to meet the need.

       2. Specific parts, accessories, equipment, materials, services, proprietary items or
          other items are necessary to meet the city's needs, and there are no comparable
          items reasonably available.

       3. Items are procured for resale.

   B. Procedure: To use sole source procurement, the purchasing agent shall place a
      written determination in the procurement file after conducting a good faith review
      of available sources, stating why no other sources are reasonably available, or why
      competition would not be likely to produce other acceptable offers. Sole source
      procurement shall not be used only to accommodate a desire for a particular
      proprietary item unless the city has a very specific need for such item which can be
      justified in writing. The city shall be deemed to have a very specific need when there
      is a need to procure matching or compatible supplies and services and when other
      similar supplies and services would not be reasonably beneficial to the city's needs.
      The purchasing agent or designee shall negotiate and use appropriate means to
      obtain the best price available for any item procured under this section. (Ord. 2016-
      28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.190: EMERGENCIES, PUBLIC THREATS AND UNFORESEEN CONDITIONS:

   A. Generally: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, and conditioned on
      prior appropriation of necessary funds by the city council, the purchasing agent may
      make, or authorize others to make, emergency procurement of supplies, services, or
      construction items when there exists a threat to public health, welfare, or safety;
      provided that procurement in response to such emergencies, public threats or
      unforeseen conditions shall be made with such competition as is practicable under
      the circumstances. Procurement made on this basis shall occur as set forth in this
      section, subject, however, to any contrary requirements of, or procedures under,
      Utah state law or any emergency management plan for the city from time to time in
      effect.

   B. Definitions: The conditions specified in this section are defined as follows:

EMERGENCY CONDITION: Creates an immediate and serious need for supplies or services
that cannot adequately be addressed using normal procurement methods. Such a need may
arise by reason of a natural disaster, epidemic, riot, equipment failure or other reason.

PUBLIC THREATS: Circumstances that appear likely to adversely impact the public's health,
welfare, convenience or safety. They may arise when circumstances appear to create a risk
of environmental contamination, traffic congestion or hazards, disruption of utility or other
public services, or other matters.
UNFORESEEN CONDITION: Creates a need to procure supplies or services within time
frames that could not reasonably be anticipated or accommodated under normal
procurement methods.

   C. Procedure: The purchasing agent shall examine the circumstances and determine
      whether they constitute a condition set forth above. If so, the purchasing agent may
      take any action required by such condition. The purchasing agent shall place in the
      procurement file a written determination and explanation of the condition.
      Procurement should be as competitive as possible under the circumstances, but
      priority shall be given to meeting the needs of the emergency or combating the
      public threat. Only those supplies and services impacted by the condition in
      question may be acquired under this section. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.200: PROCUREMENT PROTESTS:

Any actual or prospective bidder or offeror who is aggrieved in connection with the
solicitation or award of a contract for procurement may protest the procurement by filing a
written protest with the purchasing agent. The protest shall contain the following
information:

   A. The protesting party's name, mailing address and daytime telephone number, the
      signature of the protesting party or the attorney for the protesting party, and the
      date the protest is signed; and

   B. The relief sought, a statement of facts and a recitation of the reasons and legal
      authority in support of the protest sufficient to permit review.

   C. Protests shall be submitted prior to the closing date for receiving bids or proposals
      unless the protestor did not know and could not reasonably have known of the facts
      giving rise to the protest prior to such time, but in any event, all protests shall be
      submitted within five (5) business days after the closing date for receiving bids or
      proposals.

   D. The city may proceed with the procurement despite the protest, except that the
      purchasing agent may suspend the procurement process for so long as he they
      determines is appropriate.

   E. The purchasing agent may designate another individual to assist in reviewing the
      matter, which assistance may include finding facts, analyzing the protest, and
      making recommendations to the purchasing agent.

   F. The purchasing agent or designee may request additional information from the
      protesting party or from other persons to make a determination. The protesting
      party shall provide all information requested by the purchasing agent reasonably
      needed to decide the protest except information which is protected from disclosure
      by law, or which could reasonably be expected to result in unfair competitive injury
      to the protestor.

   G. The purchasing agent shall review and decide protests, and shall issue a written
      determination to the protesting party within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of
      the protest.

   H. The protesting party may appeal the written decision of the purchasing agent by
      filing a written appeal with the manager within five (5) business days of the
      purchasing agent's written determination. Unless otherwise agreed to by the city
      and the appellant, the hearing shall be held no sooner than five (5) business days
      and no later than thirty (30) business days after the date that the appeal is filed.

   I. At the hearing before the manager, the appellant and the city's representative shall
      be allowed to testify, present evidence, and comment on the issues. The manager
      also may allow other interested persons to testify, comment or provide evidence on
      the issues.

   J. No later than fifteen (15) business days after the hearing, the manager shall issue a
      signed order either granting the appeal in whole or in part, or upholding the
      determination of the purchasing agent in whole or in part. The order of the manager
      shall include:

      1. The decision, and any reasons for the decision the manager may wish to provide;
         and

      2. A statement that any party to the appeal may appeal the decision to the district
         court.

   K. If the manager fails to issue a decision within fifteen (15) business days after the
      hearing, said failure shall be considered the equivalent of an order denying the
      appeal.

   L. The manager may appoint a person other than the purchasing agent to fulfill the
      manager's responsibilities under this section. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.210: SANCTIONS:

   A. It is unlawful:

      1. For any bidder or prospective bidder, or city employee or city officer, in restraint
         of freedom of competition or otherwise, by agreement with any other person,
         bidder, or prospective bidder, to bid a fixed price, or to "rotate" bidding practices
         among competitors unless specifically authorized by the City’s policies, rules and
         regulations;
   2. For any person to offer or to give to any employee of the city or any member of
      his immediate family, any gain, whether in the form of money, services, loan,
      travel, entertainment, hospitality, promise, or other form, under circumstances
      in which it could reasonably be intended to influence him or could reasonably be
      expected to influence him in his duties concerning the award of any contract or
      order of purchase, or for any city employee to directly or indirectly solicit or
      directly or indirectly accept any such gift for such purpose;

   3. For any city employee or city officer to disclose, in advance of the opening of the
      bids, the content of any bid invited through the formal competitive bidding
      procedure;

   4. For any city employee or city officer to actively participate in the awarding of a
      contract from which he will directly benefit; and

   5. For any city employee or city officer or other person to appropriate for personal
      or private use any item of public property.

B. Any city employee or city officer committing any of the foregoing acts may be
   discharged or suspended from employment, and the city may seek additional
   appropriate legal redress.

C. At the discretion of the city council, the following contracts are voidable:

   1. Contracts which result from a conflict of interest under this chapter or other
      applicable law;

   2. Contracts awarded to a person or firm that tried to influence the award of such
      contract by offering something of value to any city officer or city employee; and

   3. Contracts awarded by a city officer or city employee circumventing the
      requirements of this chapter or other applicable statute.

D. The city council hereby declares its intent that the contracts described in
   subsections C1 through C3 of this section would not have been entered into on
   behalf of the city if such misconduct had been discovered prior to the execution of
   the contract. In this regard, the council further states that no city officer or city
   employee has authority, either actual, apparent or implied, to negotiate or execute
   any such contract and that such contract shall, at the discretion of the city council,
   be voidable, unless the action of the city officers or city employees in executing the
   contract is ratified by affirmative action of the city council after the misconduct was
   discovered and made known to the city council.

E. All persons or firms responsible for any misconduct prohibited by this section shall
   be liable to the city for any losses incurred by the city resulting from any contract
   awarded due to such misconduct. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)
2.11.220: REMEDIES FOR SOLICITATIONS OR AWARDS IN VIOLATION OF LAW:

  A. Prior To Bid Opening Or Closing Date For Receipt Of Proposals: If, prior to the bid
     opening or the closing date for receipt of proposals, the purchasing agent, after
     consultation with the city attorney, determines that a solicitation is in violation of
     applicable law, then the solicitation or proposed award shall be canceled or revised
     to comply with applicable law.

  B. Prior To Award: If, after a bid opening or the closing date for receipt of proposals,
     the purchasing agent, after consultation with the city attorney, determines that a
     solicitation or a proposed award of an agreement is in violation of applicable law,
     then the solicitation or proposed award shall be canceled.

  C. After Award: If, after an award, the purchasing agent, after consultation with the city
     attorney, determines that a solicitation or award of an agreement was in violation of
     applicable law, then:

     1. If the person awarded the agreement has not acted fraudulently or in bad faith:

         a. The agreement may be ratified and affirmed, provided it is determined that
            doing so is in the city's best interests; or

         b. The agreement may be terminated and the person awarded the agreement
            shall be compensated for the actual costs reasonably incurred under the
            agreement, plus a reasonable profit, prior to the termination; or

     2. If the person awarded the agreement has acted fraudulently or in bad faith, the
        agreement may be declared null and void or voidable, if such action is in the
        city's best interests. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.230: ROUTINE EXPENDITURES:

  A. Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, but subject to statutory
     compliance by the city's director of finance and treasurer, the manager or designee
     may approve for payment routine expenditures such as utility bills, leases and
     payroll related expenses, provided that such expenditures are referenced in the then
     approved budget, that the funds are available for such expenditures, and that
     sufficient documentation is provided concerning such expenditures.

  B. The manager or designee also similarly may approve payments for supplies,
     nonprofessional and professional services and payments on city approved contracts,
     provided that such expenditures are referenced in the then approved budget, that
     the funds are available for such expenditures, and that sufficient documentation is
     provided concerning such expenditures. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)
2.11.240: PAYROLL OBLIGATIONS:
Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, but subject to statutory
compliance by the city's director of finance and treasurer, the manager or designee may
approve payroll checks prepared in
accordance with a salary schedule approved by the city council. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.240: PROVIDING INFORMATION AND RECORDS:

   A. Information and copies of records under this chapter may be requested from the
      city recorder pursuant to the government records access and management act
      ("GRAMA"), Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-101 et seq.

   B. Quotations shall remain confidential until all quotations have been received. (Ord.
      2016-28, 11-3-2016)

   C. Sealed bids shall remain confidential until the bids are opened, after which they
      shall be available for public inspection if provided by GRAMA, except for
      information or data that the bidder designates as proprietary or confidential.

   D. Sealed bids shall remain confidential until the bids are opened, after which they
      shall be available for public inspection if provided by GRAMA, except for
      information or data that the bidder designates as proprietary or confidential.

2.11.250: BLANKET PURCHASE ORDER:

Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the manager, purchasing agent or
designee may arrange blanket purchase orders with suppliers which shall authorize
continuing charges against the city. Such purchase orders shall be reviewed and renewed at
least once each fiscal year. The manager, purchasing agent or designee shall, in advance of
any transaction negotiated upon such blanket purchase order, notify the merchant or
supplier of the specific city employee authorized to take delivery and sign the purchase
order. No billing against the city shall be valid as applied against the purchase order unless
the person taking delivery was authorized to do so and the blanket purchase order shall be
available for public inspection if required by GRAMA.
  A. Sealed bids shall remain confidential until the bids are opened, after which they shall
be available for public inspection if provided by GRAMA, except for information or data that
the bidder designates as proprietary or confidential.
  B. Sealed proposals shall remain confidential until an award is made. After award of a
contract, the successful proposal shall be available for public inspection if provided by
GRAMA, except for information or data that the bidder designates as proprietary or
confidential. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.260: ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS AND POLICIES:
The manager may prescribe administrative regulations and procedures which are
consistent with the provisions of this chapter and other written financial procedures
approved by the city council. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)

2.11.270: AUTHORIZED CONTRACT TYPES:

As authorized by Utah Code Annotated 63G-6a-1205(4), the city is authorized to use any of
the following contract types:

   A. A fixed price contract;

   B. A fixed price contract with price adjustment;

   C. A time and materials contract;

   D. A labor hour contract;

   E. A definite quantity contract;

   F. An indefinite quantity contract;

   G. A requirements contract;

   H. A contract based on a rate table in accordance with industry standards; or

   I. A contract that includes one (1) or more of the following construction delivery
      methods:

       1. Design-build;

       2. Design-bid-build; or

       3. Construction contractor. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)
       4.3.
2.11.280: SIGNING AUTHORITY:

The City Council may authorize the Manager to sign any agreement, purchase order,
obligation, form, or other document. In addition, the Manager has authority to sign all
documents necessary to allow the City to make minimal purchases and small purchases, as
defined in this chapter, provided that funds have been previously appropriated by the City
Council. When a specific appropriation has been made by the City Council, or for aAny
contract or written obligations less than $100,000, the Manager may sign. signed by the
Manager in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or where a specific appropriation
has not been made by the City Council must be signed by the Mayor and attested by the City
Recorder. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)
   A. In any document accepted by the City in which a signature is required or used, the
      City may authorize the use of an electronic signature, so long as it complies with the
      requirements of this section.

   B. The use of an electronic signature shall have the same force and effect as the use of a
      “wet” or manual signature if:

          1. The signature is capable of verification;

          2. The signature is under the sole control of the person using it; and

          3. The signature is linked to the data in such a manner that it is readily
             ascertainable if the data is changed after the signature is applied.

   C. The City Manager shall determine acceptable technologies and vendors under this
      section consistent with industry best practices to ensure the security and integrity
      of the data and the signature. The City Manager shall further determine the
      documents for which the City will accept electronic signatures.

2.11.300: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PROPERTY:

   A. Purpose: For purposes of this section, significant parcel of real property shall be
      defined as either a parcel or lot at least one-fourth (1/4) acre in size or having a
      value of more than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) or property of any
      size dedicated to public use. Significant personal property shall be defined as an
      item or a collection of like items having a value in excess of fifty thousand dollars
      ($50,000.00) as determined by reasonable estimates based on other like surplus
      property sales of public entities or like sales by private entities.

   B. Authority: The City Manager shall have the authority to sell, lease, convey and
      dispose of real and personal property for the benefit of the City as provided by Utah
      Code Annotated section 10-8-2, as amended.

   C. Requirements: Before the City may dispose of a significant parcel of real property,
      or significant personal property the City Council shall:

      1. Provide reasonable notice of the proposed disposition at least fourteen (14) days
         before a scheduled meeting at which the City will hear public comment; and

      2. Hold a meeting at which the City Council accepts public comment on the
         proposed disposition.

      3. Close or remove property from public use, if necessary.

   D. Conditions, Limitations: All disposal, leases or subleases of such property of the City
      other than a significant parcel of real property, shall be made, as nearly as possible,
   under the same conditions and limitations as required by City ordinances and State
   law for the purchase and sale of property.

E. Methods Of Sale: The City Council may also authorize at its discretion and under
   such terms and conditions as it may deem desirable, fair and appropriate,
   considering intended use, property tax value and the interests of the City, the sale of
   any surplus property, through public auction or other method designed to best
   serve the interests of City residents and produce a fair return; the trade or exchange
   of any surplus property; and the lease or sublease of any surplus property. (Ord.
   2017-12, 5-18-2017)
                                      4/14/2025




      City of Holladay
       FY 2025-26 Budget Discussion


1




    Preliminary Budget Analysis




2




                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                 4/14/2025




      Sales Tax Growth
                  SALES TAX GROWTH BY QUARTER, COMPARED TO SAME QUARTER
                                        PRIOR YEAR




                             29%


                                                           22%
    18%                                         19%
                                       16%

            12%     12%                                            12%


                                                                              6%
                                                                                     4%
                                                                     2%
                                                                                       1%                0%    0%
                                                                                 -1%         0%    0%
    Q1 FY Q2 FY     Q3 FY Q4 FY Q1 FY Q2 FY Q3 FY Q4 FY Q1 FY Q2 FY Q3 FY Q4 FY Q1 FY Q2 FY Q3 FY Q4 FY Q1 FY Q2 FY
     21    21        21    21    22    22    22    22    23    23    23     23
                                                                           -5%    24   24    24    24    25    25




3




      Consumer Price Index Changes
     Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U)
     1-Month Percent Change
     Series Id:            CUSR0000SA0

     Seasonally Adjusted
     Series Title: All items in U.S. city average, all urban consumers, seasonally adjusted
     Area:       U.S. city average
     Item:      All items
     Base Period: 1982-84=100


     Year     Jan          Feb         Mar           Apr         May         Jun         Jul         Aug         Sep         Oct         Nov         Dec
     2021            0.2         0.4           0.5         0.7         0.7         0.9         0.5         0.3         0.4         0.9         0.8         0.7
     2022            0.6         0.7             1         0.4         0.9         1.3           0         0.1         0.4         0.5         0.2           0
     2023            0.6         0.3           0.1         0.4         0.2         0.3         0.2         0.5         0.4         0.1         0.1         0.2
     2024            0.3         0.4           0.3         0.3           0           0         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4
     2025            0.5         0.2

     June 2021 to May 2022                     8.1
     June 2022 to May 2023                     4.1
     June 2023 to May 2024                     3.1
     June 2024 to Present                      2.1
                                              17.4

     Prior Year COLA
     FY 2023                                  7.00
     FY 2024                                  4.00
     FY 2025                                  4.00
     FY 2026 Tentative                        3.00
                                             18.00




4




                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                    4/14/2025




    Preliminary Revenue
                City of Holladay Summary of Key General Fund Budget Changes, FY 2025-26

                                                              Change in Full
             Description of Change             FY 2024-25    Time Equivalent         Changes       FY 2025-26
                                                                Positions
    Revenue                                     23,193,097                                          23,694,772
    Property Tax New Growth                                                             29,141
    Motor Vehicle Fee-in-Lieu                                                           29,000
    Class C Distribution                                                                75,000
    Slco Road Funds 5th of 5th                                                         355,000
    Class C Interest                                                                    80,000
    General Sales & Use Tax                                                            163,271
    Franchise Tax (Cable TV)                                                           (20,000)
    Franchise Tax Rocky Mountain                                                        54,000
    Franchise Tax Enbridge                                                            (200,000)
    City Hall Rental Income                                                            (12,000)
    Building Permits                                                                    81,000
    Plan check Fees                                                                     63,000
    Road cut permits                                                                   (30,000)
    Land Use Fees                                                                       15,000
    Millcreek Reimbursement                                                           (123,000)
    Interest Earnings                                                                  (77,737)

    Miscellaneous Changes of 10,000 or less                                             20,000

    Use of GF Fund Balance
    Total Projected General Fund Revenue        23,193,097                             501,675     23,694,772




5




    Preliminary Expenses and GAP
                  City of Holladay Summary of Key General Fund Budget Changes, FY 2025-26

                                                                Change in Full
             Description of Change            FY 2024-25       Time Equivalent        Changes         FY 2025-26
                                                                  Positions
    Admin                                   1,729,217                                                   1,820,456
    Personnel Related Changes                                                            49,556
    Liab.,Surety Bds,Works Comp                                                          29,000
    HB 411 Governance implement                                                         (19,530)
    Citizen Survey                                                                      (15,000)
    Computer Hardware                                                                    10,850
    Computer Software                                                                    10,353
    Other Changes                                                                        26,010
    Council                                   255,973                                                    266,477
    Personnel Related Changes                                                             8,563
    Professional Service (Minutes)                                                        5,500
    Other Changes                                                                        (3,559)
    Justice Court                           1,117,446                                                   1,220,865
    Personnel Costs                                                            0.5       58,546
    Bailiff                                                                           34,023.20
    Other Changes                                                                        10,850
    Public Services                         3,990,033                                                   4,217,121
    Personnel Related Changes                                                               637
    County Public Works Contract                                                         78,101
    Parks Supplies and Maintenance (Playground resurfacing)                              54,000
    Utilities Addition of Spring Lane                                                    40,000
    Spring Lane Lease Payment                                                            37,350
    Other Changes                                                                        17,000




6




                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                          4/14/2025




     Preliminary Expenses and GAP
                  City of Holladay Summary of Key General Fund Budget Changes, FY 2025-26

                                                             Change in Full
             Description of Change            FY 2024-25    Time Equivalent    Changes       FY 2025-26
                                                               Positions
    Non-Departmental                            4,779,018                                     2,849,519
    Reduction in transfer to Capital Projects Fund                             (1,909,337)
    Special Election                                                               75,691
    Reduction in transfer to Grants Fund                                          (33,333)
    Tree Committee                                                                (32,500)
    Christmas Tree Lighting Vil Ct                                                (25,000)
    Christmas Decorations                                                         (15,000)
    Other Changes                                                                   9,980
    Community Development                       1,086,672                                     1,085,989
    Personnel Related Changes                                            0.5      85,617
    Small Business Assistance                                                    (35,000)
    Building Inspection Contract                                                 (25,000)
    Business License Fee Study                                                   (12,000)
    Other Changes                                                                (14,300)
    Fire                                        3,071,816                                     3,198,058
    Unified Fire/Paramedic Contr.                                                126,242
    Police                                      8,067,386                                     8,482,402
    Unified Police Greater SL                                                    406,384
    Animal Control                                                                 8,632
    Attorney                                      150,000                                       150,000
    No change                                                                         -

    Total Projected General Fund Expenses                              1.00     (956,674)    23,290,887

    Increase in Fund Balance                                                                    403,885




7




    All Funds Personnel Related
    Changes
       %3 COLA Increase which represents an increase of $72,559

       New FTEs
           • Part-time Justice Court Clerk - $62,896
           • Part-time Building Inspector - $39,570

       Cost of health insurance increased by $15,285

       Market and mid point adjustments for targeted positions $49,110

       Reduced seasonal parks budget ($26,000)

       Retirement Changes $32,326




8




                                                                                                                 4
                                                                            4/14/2025




     Projects for Council Discussion
     • Electrical Work in Village for Additional Tree Lighting - $100,000
     • Metal Banners - $30,000
     • Spring Lane Lease Payment - $37,350
     • Additional Water for Spring Lane - $35,000
     • Additional Revenue for Spring Lane Rental – ($20,000)
     • Central Wasatch Commission - $25,000
     • Professionally Produced Video - Holladay - $10,000




9




           TIMELINE & ACTIVITIES




10




                                                                                   5
