                               NOTICE OF A MEETING OF THE
                             CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                               THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2025

5:30 p.m.       Briefing Session - The Council will review and discuss the agenda items; NO decisions
                will be made


PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a Council meeting
on Thursday, December 4, 2025, at 6:00 pm. Members of the Council may participate by
electronic means if needed. The Council Chambers shall serve as the anchor location.
* Agenda items may be moved in order, sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or linked in this agenda.
Interested parties are encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

Citizens desiring to make public comments or to make comments during any public hearing may provide
such comments as follows:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@cityofholladay.com


                                               AGENDA

I.      Welcome – Mayor Dahle

II.     Pledge of Allegiance

III.    Presentation for Council Member Paul Fotheringham

IV.     Presentation and Recognition for Outgoing Council Member Ty Brewer

V.      Recess City Council for Short Reception

VI.     Reconvene City Council Meeting

VII.    Public Comments
        Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda may provide their
        comment via email to the Council before 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting to
        scarlson@holladayut.gov with the subject line: Public Comment. Comments are subject to the
        Public Comment Policy set forth below

VIII.   Continued Public Hearing on Proposed Text Amendment to Add Title 13.70 Wildland Urban
        Interface Overlay Zone & Building Code (Regulations as they relate to statute obligations, as
        set forth by State of Utah Legislation, HB 48 creating a Wildland Urban Interface (WUI)
        boundary zone and adopting the 2006 Utah WUI Building Code)
IX.       Public Hearing on Proposed Amendments to Title 3 -Revenue and Finance

X.        Consideration of Ordinance 2025-20 Amending Title 3 of the City Code Relating to Revenue
          and Finance

XI.       Consideration of Ordinance 2025-21 Amending the Budget for Fiscal Year Beginning July 1,
          2025 and Ending June 30, 2026

XII.       Consideration of Ordinance 2025-22 Adopting Amendments to the City Code Relating to
          the Establishment of an Overlay Zone for the Wildland Urban Interface, Adopting
          Provisions of the Wildland Urban Interface Building Code and Making Other Related
          Amendments

XIII.     Consideration of Resolution 2025-30 Approving an Amendment to the Site Development
          Master Plan for Royal Holladay Hills

XIV.      Consideration of Resolution 2025-31 Adopting the 2026 Meeting Schedule

XV.       City Manager Report - Gina Chamness

XVI.      Council Reports & District Issues
          a. Utah Renewable Communities Update – Council Member Quinn

XVII. Recess to Work Meeting to Discuss:
          a. Discussion on Potential Holladay Hill Affordable Housing Agreement Block E

XVIII. Adjourn




 Public Comment Policy & Procedure: During each regular Council Meeting there will be a Public Comment
 Time. The purpose of the Public Comment Time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council. Citizens requesting to
 address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and present it to the City Recorder. In general,
 the Chairman will allow an individual three minutes to address the Council. A spokesman, recognized as
 representing a group in attendance, may be allowed up to five minutes. Comments which cannot be made within
 these time limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting so
 they can be copied and distributed to the Council. At the conclusion of the Citizen Comment time, the Chairman
 may direct staff to assist the citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative
 department(s); or take no action. This policy also applies to all Public Hearings.



 CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
 I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above agenda notice was
 posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,
 and was emailed to the Salt Lake Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

 DATE POSTED: Monday, December 1, 2025 at 1:00pm
 Stephanie N. Carlson MMC
 City Recorder City of Holladay

         Reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities or those needing language interpretation
      services can be provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at
             least three days in advance. TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2025-20

         AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY AMENDING TITLE 3 OF CITY CODE
                          RELATING TO REVENUE AND FINANCE

       WHEREAS, as previously directed by the City Council, City staff has prepared policy
updates and technical amendments to Title 3 of City Code; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing and has determined that the
proposed amendments will serve the public interest;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Municipal Council of the City of Holladay,
Utah as follows:

        Section 1. Amendment. Title 3 of the City of Holladay Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein
by reference.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or posting
or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.

         PASSED AND APPROVED this __ day of December, 2025.

                                                  HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                  By: ____________________________________
                                                       Robert Dahle, Mayor


[SEAL]                                            VOTING:
                                                  Ty Brewer                  Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Matt Durham                Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Paul Fotheringham          Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Drew Quinn                 Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Emily Gray                 Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Robert Dahle               Yea       Nay ___
ATTEST:

_____________________________
TITLE 3
REVENUE AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 3.08          SALES AND USE TAX
CHAPTER 3.09          MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
CHAPTER 3.10          TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
CHAPTER 3.12          TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE TAX
CHAPTER 3.16          COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FEES
CHAPTER 3.40          DONATION, SPONSORSHIP AND NAMING OF CITY ASSETS


CHAPTER 3.08          SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3.08.010: Title
3.08.020: Purpose
3.08.030: Effective Date
3.08.040: Sales And Use Tax
3.08.050: Reserved
3.08.060: Penalties
3.08.070: Severability


3.08.010: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as THE CITY OF HOLLADAY SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE.


3.08.020: PURPOSE:
The Utah legislature has authorized municipalities to adopt an ordinance that imposes a
one percent (1%) sales and use tax. It is the purpose of this chapter to conform the sales
and use tax ordinance of the city to the requirements of the sales and use tax act, as
amended. This ordinance shall be interpreted to provide for no lapse in the assessment and
collection of the Sales and Use Tax.


3.08.040: SALES AND USE TAX:
 A. There is hereby levied and there shall be collected and paid taxes as follows:
   1. A tax is hereby imposed upon every retail sale of tangible personal property, services
and meals made within the city at the rate of one percent (1%) of the purchase price paid
or charged on such retail sale.
    2. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the city
of tangible personal property from any retailer on or after the effective date hereof at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the sales price of the property.
   3. For the purpose of this chapter all retail sales shall be presumed to have been
consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out of
state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out of state destination. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed
by and adopted by the state tax commission. "Public utilities", as defined by Utah Code
Annotated title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within any
county or municipality where public utilities services are rendered, but the place of sale or
the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable to the city shall be as determined
by the state tax commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the state tax commission.
 B. Adoption Of State Provisions: The provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter
12, as amended, are hereby adopted as follows:
    1. Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of the sales and use tax act, all of the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, as amended, and in force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they
relate to sales and use taxes, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though
fully set forth herein.
    2. Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as
amended, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the
city, or other name pursuant to a name change, shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in
subsection B of this section shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the city
for the word "state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state tax commission,
or of the constitution of the state, nor shall the name of the city be substituted for that of
the state in any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against the city, rather than by or against the state tax commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.
  3. If a license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-
106, an additional license shall not be required by reason of this chapter.
  4. There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by which the tax is
measured:
    a. The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a retailer or
consumer; and
     b. The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use tax has become due by reason of
the sale transaction to any other municipality and any county in the state, under the sales
or use tax ordinance enacted by that county or municipality in accordance with the sales
and use tax act.


3.08.050: RESERVED:


3.08.060: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not
less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for a period of not more than
six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.


3.08.070: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this section, including, but
not limited to, any exemption, is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this chapter. It is the intention of the city council that each
separate provision of this chapter shall be deemed independent of all other provisions
herein.


CHAPTER 3.09            MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3.09.010: Purpose
3.09.020: Definitions
3.09.030: Levy
3.09.040: Exemptions
3.09.050: No Effect Upon Existing Franchises; Credit For Franchise Fees
3.09.060: Tax Collection Contract With State Tax Commission
3.09.070: Incorporation Of State Statute
3.09.080: No Additional License Or Reporting
3.09.010: PURPOSE:
The City of Holladay hereby adopts the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax pursuant to,
and in conformance with, section 10-1-301 et seq., Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as
amended, "the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax". This ordinance shall be interpreted to
provide for no lapse in the assessment and collection of the Municipal Energy Sales and Use
Tax.


3.09.020: DEFINITIONS:
CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject to the
Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax.
CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE:
 A. A fee:
   1. Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
   2. That is consideration for the franchise agreement; or
 B. 1. A fee similar to subsection A of this definition; or
   2. Any combination of subsection A of this definition or this subsection B.
DELIVERED VALUE: A. The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for sale or use
in the Municipality and includes:
   1. The value of the energy itself; and
   2. Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, services charges, or other
costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in usable form to each class of
customer in the Municipality.
 B. "Delivered value" does not include the amount of a tax paid under part 1 or part 2 of
chapter 12, title 59 of the Utah Code.
ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons supplying a de
minimus amount of taxable energy, if such persons are excluded by rule promulgated by
the State Tax Commission.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract, or agreement granting a
franchise.
FRANCHISE TAX:
 A. A Franchise Tax;
 B. A tax similar to a Franchise Tax; or
 C. Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation,
estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, this State, any county, city, municipality,
district, or other local governmental entity of the State, or any group or combination acting
as a unit.
SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange, or barter, conditional or otherwise, in any manner, of
taxable energy for a consideration. It includes:
 A. Installment and credit sales;
 B. Any closed transaction constituting a sale;
 C. Any transaction under which right to acquire, use, or consume taxable energy is
granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable if an outright sale were
made.
STORAGE: Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in the city for any purpose except
sale in the regular course of business.
TAXABLE ENERGY: Gas and electricity.
USE:
  A. The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the ownership or
the leasing of the taxable energy.
  B. "Use" does not include the sale, display, demonstration, or trial of the taxable energy
in the regular course of business and held for resale.


3.09.030: LEVY:
There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this chapter, a tax on every sale or use of
taxable energy made within the city of Holladay equaling six percent (6%) of the delivered
value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This tax shall be known as the municipal
energy sales and use tax.
 A. The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the taxable energy to the
consumer.
  B. The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax or taxable energy imposed by the
city of Holladay authorized by title 59, chapter 12, part 2 of the Utah code, the local sales
and use tax act.


3.09.040: EXEMPTIONS:
 A. No exemptions are granted from the municipal energy sales and use tax except as
expressly provided in section 10-1-305(2)(b) of the Utah code; notwithstanding an
exemption granted by section 59-12-104 of the Utah code.
 B. The following are exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax, pursuant to
section 10-1-305(2)(b) of the Utah code:
    1. Sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel, and special fuels subject to taxation under
title 59, chapter 13 of the Utah code;
  2. Sales and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation under federal law, the
United States constitution, or the Utah constitution;
   3. Sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored for resale;
   4. Sales or use of taxable energy to a person, if the primary use of the taxable energy is
for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or a fuel subject to taxation under title
59, chapter 13 of the Utah code;
    5. Taxable energy brought into the state by a nonresident for the nonresident's own
personal use or enjoyment while within the state, except taxable energy purchased for use
in the state by a nonresident living or working in the state at the time of purchase;
   6. The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than as a fuel or energy; and
   7. The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of the city.
 C. The sale, storage, use, or other consumption of taxable energy is exempt from the
municipal energy sales and use tax levied by this chapter, provided:
   1. The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a municipal energy
sales or use tax levied by another municipality within the state authorized by title 59,
chapter 12, part 3 of the Utah code; and
   2. The city is paid the difference between the tax paid to the other municipality and the
tax that would otherwise be due under this chapter, if the tax due under this chapter
exceeds the tax paid to the other municipality.


3.09.050: NO EFFECT UPON EXISTING FRANCHISES; CREDIT FOR FRANCHISE FEES:
 A. This chapter shall not alter any existing franchise agreements between the city and
energy suppliers.
  B. There is a credit against the tax due from any consumer in the amount of a contractual
franchise fee paid if:
   1. The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy supplier to a consumer
as a separately itemized charge; and
   2. The energy supplier has accepted the franchise.


3.09.060: TAX COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
 A. On or before the effective date of this chapter, the city shall contract with the state tax
commission to perform all functions incident to the administration and collection of the
municipal energy sales and use tax, in accordance with this chapter. This contract may be a
supplement to the existing contract with the commission to administer and collect the local
sales and use tax, as provided in section 3.09.050 of this chapter. The mayor, with the
approval of the city manager and city attorney, is hereby authorized to enter
supplementary agreements with the state tax commission that may be necessary to the
continued administration and operation of the municipal energy sales and use tax
ordinance enacted by this chapter.
 B. An energy supplier shall pay the municipal energy sales and use tax revenues
collected from consumers directly to the city monthly if:
   1. The city is the energy supplier; or
   2. a. The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales and use tax
collected annually from its Utah consumers equals one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) or
more, and
    b. The energy supplier collects the municipal energy sales and use tax.
  C. An energy supplier paying the municipal energy sales and use tax directly to the city
may deduct any contractual franchise fees collected by the energy supplier qualifying as a
credit and remit the net tax less any amount the energy supplier retains as authorized by
section 10-1-307(4) of the Utah code.


3.09.070: INCORPORATION OF STATE STATUTE:
  A. 1. Except as herein provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of title 10, chapter 1, part 3, municipal energy sales and use tax act, as well as
this chapter, all of the provisions of part 1, chapter 12, title 59 of the Utah code, and in force
and effect on the effective date of this chapter, insofar as they relate to sales and use taxes,
are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein.
    2. Whenever, and to the extent that in part 1, chapter 12, title 59 of the Utah code, the
state of Utah is named or referred to as the "taxing agency", the name of the city shall be
substituted, insofar as is necessary for the purposes of that part, as well as part 3, chapter
1, title 10 of the Utah code. Nothing in this subsection A2 shall be deemed to require
substitution of the name of the city for the word "state" when that word is used as part of
the title of the state tax commission, or of the constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of the
city be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of such a substitution
would require action to be taken by or against the city or any agency thereof, rather than
by or against the state tax commission in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this chapter.
   3. Any amendments made to part 1, chapter 12, title 59 of the Utah code, which would
be applicable to the city for the purposes of carrying out this chapter are hereby
incorporated herein by reference and shall be effective upon the date that they are effective
as a Utah statute.


3.09.080: NO ADDITIONAL LICENSE OR REPORTING:
No additional license to collect or report the municipal energy sales and use tax levied by
this chapter is required, provided the energy supplier collecting the tax has a license issued
under section 59-12-106 of the Utah code.


CHAPTER 3.10            TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
SECTION:
3.10.010: Title
3.10.020: Purpose
3.10.030: Effective Date
3.10.040: Definitions
3.10.050: Transient Room Tax
3.10.060: Revenue Use
3.10.070: Severability


3.10.010: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known at THE TRANSIENT ROOM TAX ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
HOLLADAY.


3.10.020: PURPOSE:
The Utah legislature has authorized municipalities to adopt an ordinance that imposes a
one percent (1%) transient room tax. It is the purpose of this chapter to conform the
transient room tax ordinance of the city to the requirements of the transient room tax act,
as amended. This ordinance shall be interpreted to provide for no lapse in the assessment
and collection of the Transient Room Tax.


3.10.040: DEFINITIONS:
PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION: A place providing temporary sleeping accommodations to the
public and includes a motel; hotel; motor court; inn; bed and breakfast establishment;
condominium; and resort home.
RENTS: Includes rents; and timeshare fees or dues.
TRANSIENT: A person who occupies a public accommodation for thirty (30) consecutive
days or less.


3.10.050: TRANSIENT ROOM TAX:
  A. Imposed: There is hereby levied and imposed, and there shall be collected and paid, a
transient room tax on the rents charged to transients occupying public accommodations
within the city's corporate limits in an amount that is equal to one percent (1%) of the
rents charged.
 B. State Provisions Adopted: The provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
as amended, are hereby adopted as follows:
   1. Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of the transient room tax act, all of the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title
59, chapter 12, as amended, and in force and affect on the effective date hereof, insofar as
they relate to sales and use taxes, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as
though fully set forth herein.
    2. Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as
amended, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the
city, or other name pursuant to a name change, shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in
subsection B of this section shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the city
be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that substitution would
require action to be taken by or against the city rather than by or against the state tax
commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
chapter.
  3. If a license has been issued to a person or entity (a "transient facility") offering
public accommodations for rent to transients under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-
106, an additional license shall not be required by reason of this chapter.
   4. There shall be excluded from the rents charged (by which the transient room tax is
measured) the amount of any sales or similar transient room tax imposed by the state or
Salt Lake County upon the transient facility or the transient in connection with such rental
transaction.
  C. Collection: Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-354, the city is
empowered to either directly collect the tax imposed hereunder or to contract with the
state tax commission to collect such tax. Notwithstanding subsection B of this section, or
any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, however, the city reserves the right,
exercisable at its option, to itself collect the tax imposed hereunder if at any time
(including, without limitation, during or for the time period of January 1, 2000 through
March 31, 2000) the state tax commission fails or refuses to collect any such tax arising at
any time from or after one second after twelve o'clock (12:00:01) A.M. on January 1, 2000.
In availing itself of such right to directly collect such tax, the city shall comply with Utah
Code Annotated section 59-12-354, and any and all other applicable legal requirements. To
the extent, if any, that the city elects to directly collect such tax, the city shall be entitled to
impose penalties and interest for nonpayment or underpayment of such tax in amounts
equal to the penalties and interest rates authorized for the state tax commission under
Utah Code Annotated sections 59-1-401 and 59-1-402.


3.10.060: REVENUE USE:
All revenues generated by the transient room tax and penalties, if any, hereunder may be
used by the city for general fund purposes.


3.10.070: SEVERABILITY:
It is the intention of the city council that each separate provision of this chapter shall be
deemed independent of all other provisions herein. Accordingly, if any section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter, including, but not limited to, any
exemption, is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this chapter


CHAPTER 3.12            TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE TAX
SECTION:
3.12.010: Definitions
3.12.020: Levy Of Tax
3.12.030: Rate
3.12.040: Interlocal Agreement For Collection Of The Tax
3.12.050: Procedure For Erroneous Collections
3.12.060: Repeal Of Inconsistent Taxes And Fees


3.12.010: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter;
COMMISSION: Means the State Tax Commission.
CUSTOMER:
 A. For purposes of this chapter, "customer" means:
   1. The person who is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications provider to
pay for telecommunications service received under the contract; or
   2. If the end user is not the person described in subsection A1 of this definition, the end
user of telecommunications service.
 B. "Customer" does not include a reseller;
   1. Of telecommunications service; or
   2. For mobile telecommunications services, of a serving carrier under an agreement to
serve the customer outside the telecommunications provider's licensed service area.
END USER:
 A. Means the person who uses a telecommunications service.
  B. For purposes of telecommunications service provided to a person who is not an
individual, "end user" means the individual who uses the telecommunications service on
behalf of the person who is provided the telecommunications service.
GROSS RECEIPTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE MUNICIPALITY: Means those gross receipts from a
transaction for telecommunications services that is located within the Municipality for the
purposes of Sales and Use Taxes under Utah Code title 59, chapter 12, Sales and Use Tax
Act and determined in accordance with Utah Code section 59-12-215.
GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE:
  A. Means the revenue that a telecommunications provider receives for
telecommunications service rendered except for amounts collected or paid as:
   1. A tax, fee or charge;
    a. Imposed by a governmental entity;
     b. Separately identified as a tax, fee, or charge in the transaction with the customer
for the telecommunications service; and
    c. Imposed only on a telecommunications provider;
  2. Sales and Use Taxes collected by the telecommunications provider from a customer
under title 59, chapter 12, Sales and Use Tax Act; or
   3. Interest, a fee, or a charge that is charged by a telecommunications provider on a
customer for failure to pay for telecommunications service when payment is due.
MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Is as defined in the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act, 4 USC section 124.
MUNICIPALITY: Means City of Holladay.
PLACE OF PRIMARY USE:
  A. For telecommunications service other than mobile telecommunications service,
means the street address representative of where the customer's use of the
telecommunications service primarily occurs, which shall be:
   1. The residential street address of the customer; or
   2. The primary business street address of the customer; or
   3. For mobile telecommunications service, is as defined in the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act, 4 USC section 124.
SERVICE ADDRESS:
 A. Notwithstanding where a call is billed or paid, "service address" means:
   1. If the location described in this subsection is known, the location of the
telecommunications equipment;
    a. To which a call is charged; and
    b. From which the call originates or terminates;
   2. If the location described in subsection A1 of this definition is not known but the
location described in this subsection A2 is known, the location of the origination point of
the signal of the telecommunications service first identified by:
    a. The telecommunications system of the telecommunications provider; or
    b. If the system used to transport the signal is not a system of the telecommunications
provider, information received by the telecommunications provider from its service
provider; or
   3. If the locations described in subsection A1 or A2 of this definition are not known, the
locations of a customer's place of primary use.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER:
 A. Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, "telecommunications provider"
means a person that:
   1. Owns, controls, operates, or manages a telecommunications service; or
   2. Engages in an activity described in subsection A1 of this definition for the shared use
with or resale to any person of the telecommunications service.
 B. A person described in subsection A1 of this definition is a telecommunications
provider whether or not the Public Service Commission of Utah regulates:
   1. That person; or
  2. The telecommunication service that the person owns, controls, operates, or
manages.
 C. "Telecommunications provider" does not include an aggregator as defined in Utah
Code section 54-8b-2.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Means:
  A. Telephone services, as defined in Utah Code section 59-12-102, other than mobile
telecommunications services, that originates and terminates within the boundaries of this
State; and
 B. Mobile telecommunications service, as defined in Utah Code section 59-12-102:
   1. That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one state; and
   2. Only to the extent permitted by the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act, 4 USC
section 116 et seq.


3.12.020: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied a Municipal Telecommunications License Tax on the gross receipts
from telecommunications service attributed to this Municipality.


3.12.030: RATE:
The rate of the tax levy shall be 3.5 percent of the telecommunication provider's gross
receipts from telecommunications service that are attributed to the Municipality pursuant
to the provisions of section 10-1-407 Utah Code Annotated.


3.12.040: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR COLLECTION OF THE TAX:
On or before the effective date of this chapter, the Municipality shall enter into the uniform
interlocal agreement with the commission as described in Utah Code section 10-1-405 for
the collection, enforcement, and administration of this Municipality Telecommunications
License Tax.


3.12.050: PROCEDURE FOR ERRONEOUS COLLECTIONS:
  A. A customer may not bring a cause of action against a telecommunications provider on
the basis that the telecommunications provider erroneously recovered from the customer
Municipal Telecommunications License Taxes authorized by this part. Unless the customer
meets the same requirements that a purchaser is required to meet to bring a cause of
action against a seller for a refund or credit as provided in Utah Code Ann. § 59-12-
110.1(3).


3.12.060: REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT TAXES AND FEES:
Any tax or fee previously enacted by this Municipality under authority of Utah Code 10-1-
203 or Utah Code title 11, chapter 26, Local Taxation of Utilities Limitation is hereby
repealed.


CHAPTER 3.16          COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FEES
SECTION:
3.16.010: Community Development Department Fees
3.16.020: Waiver, Modification And Refund Of Fees


3.16.010: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT FEES:
All fees charged by the Community Development Department of the City shall be as set
forth in the City Consolidated Fee Schedule, as amended


3.16.020: WAIVER, MODIFICATION AND REFUND OF FEES:
  A. Waiver, Modification Or Refund: The city council may, on its own motion or otherwise,
waive, modify or refund any fee imposed by this chapter as provided herein. Otherwise, all
requests for waiver, modification or refund of any fee imposed by this chapter shall be
submitted in writing to the city manager.,
  B. Standard For Waiver, Modification Or Refund Of Fees Imposed By This Chapter: The
city manager may waive, modify or refund any fee imposed by this chapter upon a
determination, in his sole and absolute discretion, that:
    1. The applicant is engaged in business for solely religious, charitable or other types of
strictly nonprofit purposes which are tax exempt in such activities under the laws of the
United States or the state;
   2. The applicant is engaged in the business specifically exempted from municipal
taxation and fees by the laws of the United States or the state; or
   3. There is a prevailing public interest in waiving, modifying or refunding the fees.


CHAPTER 3.40          DONATIONS, SPONSORSHIP AND NAMING OF CITY ASSETS
SECTION:
3.40.010: Purpose
3.40.020: Scope
3.40.030: Naming Categories
3.40.040: Naming Standards
3.40.050: Changing An Existing Asset Name
3.40.060: Asset Name Removal
3.40.070: Rules And Procedures


3.40.010: PURPOSE:

  A. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policy and guidelines for the City’s
acceptance of donations, sponsorship offers and naming (including renaming) any city
owned property, referred to in this chapter as a "city asset", including, by way of example,
but not limited to, parks and park lands; landscape elements such as trees, plants, plazas,
and gardens; site furnishings such as benches, playgrounds, and donated art; open spaces;
facilities; walkways, and gathering spots; recreation elements such as sports fields;
memorials, statues, and busts; and municipal buildings, properties, sites, and structures.
 B. This chapter is designed to promote the city and enhance public awareness of
particular city assets.
 C. The naming of city assets shall be consistent with adopted city policy and, more
particularly, the provisions of this chapter.
  D. The policy set forth in this chapter is to establish a systematic and consistent basis for
recognizing contributions and support to the city from citizens, volunteers, organizations,
financial donors, community leaders, officials, and others.
 E. The final decision to permit the naming of any City asset will rest with the City Council.
3.40.015: IN KIND DONATIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, in kind donations of goods or services shall be considered
in the same manner as cash donations. The City, in its discretion, shall be responsible for
the determination of the monetary value of in kind donations.
3.40.020: SCOPE:

 A. Asset Naming Parameters:
   1. City assets shall be classified as either major or minor assets. Naming of major assets
will require council approval.

   2. A city asset will be considered major if the value exceeds three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000).

   3. There are four different types of sponsorships contemplated:
    a. Amenity Donation Program: A sponsorship of a donated amenity or a monetary
donation to purchase an amenity. In recognition of donations that exceed $5000, the City
may acknowledge the donation with a plaque in a central location.
     b. Tree Sponsorship Program: A sponsorship of a donated tree or monetary donation
to purchase a tree. In recognition of donations that exceed $5000, the City may
acknowledge the donation with a plaque in a central location.
     c. Site specific Event Sponsorships: A business, local merchant or local branch of a
corporation sponsors a time limited event or program at a City facility. The sponsorship
will be a percentage of the estimated costs and vary by event. This type of sponsorship
includes marketing materials and advertising signage at the event and will remain for the
duration of the event.

     d. Fixed Term Sponsorship/Naming Right: A sponsorship agreement (for a significant
contribution) that includes the naming display in recognition of the corporate sponsor of
the item, facility or portion of the facility for a predetermined length of time. Examples:
Scoreboards, new building, athletic fields, etc.
     e. In addition to value, an asset shall be considered to be major if one or more of the
following apply:

      (1) It provides material economic value to the city;

      (2) It is iconic to the city;

      (3) It does not currently exist as an asset class within the inventory;

      (4) It is a structure or facility, including a portion of structure or facility;

      (5) It is land regardless of acreage;

     (6) It is identified as important to one or more members of the city council after the
council receives notice from the city manager as provided in subsection B2 of this section.

   f. An asset shall be considered to be a minor asset if one or more of the following apply:
      (1) The asset is a park bench, tree/plant, bike rack, or similar object installed in a
public space.

      (2) The asset is not a major asset as described in subsection B1a of this section.
    4. The city manager shall give a minimum of fifteen (15) business days' notice to the
city council of each naming request prior to initiating a naming process. The city council
shall notify the city manager at the conclusion of the fifteen (15) business days if the city
council wishes to use a legislative process for naming an asset. If the city council does not
respond to duly given notice, the naming may proceed as provided in this chapter for a
minor asset. Unless otherwise specified by the city council, no action shall be taken on a
naming request until after the notice period has expired.

3.40.030: NAMING CATEGORIES:

The following asset naming categories are created:
  A. Category 1 - sponsorships: Following a request for qualifications or a request for
proposals, the city may enter into an agreement with an individual or an organization
whereby the naming of a city asset may be selected by such individual or organization,
pursuant to the requirements of this chapter, in exchange for a cash or other contribution to
the city.
  B. Category 2 - city recognitions: The city may elect to name a city asset to formally
recognize significant contributions and support to the city by:
   1. An individual or organization; or
   2. A group of similarly situated individuals.
  C. Category 3 - tributes and memorials: As provided in this chapter, an individual may
petition the city to name a city asset, such as a room, tree, flagpole, or park bench, as a
tribute or memorial to an individual, group, event, or other thing.
 D. Category 4 - discretionary: If a petition does not apply to an asset naming category, it
shall be left to the discretion of the city to name the asset.


3.40.040: NAMING STANDARDS:
 A. Applicability: The provisions set forth in this section apply to the naming of any city
asset, including, but not limited to:
   1. Opening of a new or refurbished city asset;
   2. Honoring an individual, group, or organization;
   3. Recognizing a gift, donation, sponsorship, or significant contribution to the city or the
general public; and
   4. Improvements to an existing city asset.
 B. General Provisions: The following provisions shall apply to selection of any name
associated with a sponsorship, city recognition, or a tribute or memorial:
   1. Consent: When a city asset is proposed to be named for an individual, before
consideration of the proposal consent shall be obtained from such individual or, if such
individual is deceased, the individual's next of kin.
  2. Prohibited Names: Unless otherwise determined by the city in its sole discretion, no
name shall be chosen that:

    a. Causes confusion due to duplication of or similarity to an existing named facility;

    b. Promotes tobacco, alcohol, obscenity or a sexually oriented business;

    c. May have an inappropriate acronym, short form, or modification.

    d. Is discriminatory, derogatory, or otherwise creates controversy.

    e. Recognizes a single individual for a contribution similar or identical to a
contribution made by others within a particularly group.
   3. Personal And Organization Names: The name of an individual or an organization,
shall be considered only when such individual or organization has made significant
contribution to the city by:

    a. Enhancing the quality of life and well being of the city;

    b. Contributing to the historical, cultural, or societal preservation of the community;
    c. Contributing a significant portion of project costs used for acquisition, development,
improvement, or conveyance of land or a building; or
    d. Achieving personal or organizational excellence that represents the City of
Holladay in a positive manner.
    e. Public Gifts: When selecting a name connected with a sponsorship, the following
additional factors shall be considered:

    f. The dollar value of the contribution compared to the construction and ongoing
operating and maintenance costs of the city asset to be named;

     g. Any financial sponsorship categories as may be established by the city to recognize
different contribution amounts;

    h. The cost of establishing the naming; and

    i. In the case of a donated asset, projected ongoing operating and maintenance costs.
  4. Asset Name Rejection: The City, in its sole discretion, may reject any proposed asset
donation or proposed name for a new or existing City asset.

 C. Tributes And Memorials: The following provisions shall apply to the selection
   1. Quality: An asset donated to the city shall conform to applicable city standards
including, but not limited to, design, durability, and location. The city, in its sole discretion,
may reject an offer to donate an asset that does not meet city standards.
   2. Maintenance: An asset donated to the city that is unique and not within any asset
class ordinarily purchased and maintained by the city shall be maintained by the donor
unless otherwise provided in an asset naming agreement.
    3. Ownership: Unless otherwise agreed to in advance and in writing, all donated
property of whatever kind becomes and remains City property. The City assumes no
liability for the loss, damage and/or replacement of City assets.

3.40.050: CHANGING AN EXISTING ASSET NAME:
 A. Criteria: The name of a city asset with an existing name shall be changed only after
consideration of the:
   1. Historical significance of the name;

   2. Impact on the currently named individual or organization; and

   3. Cost and impact of:

     a. Changing existing signage, if any;

     b. Rebuilding community recognition; and
     c. Updating records such as letterhead, databases, and promotional materials.
 B. Consideration: Each petition to change an existing name shall be considered on a case
by case basis pursuant to applicable provisions of this chapter.


3.40.060: ASSET NAME REMOVAL:
 A. End Of Service Life: When a city asset exceeds its service life, as reasonably
determined by the city, or is destroyed through no fault of the city, the asset and its
associated name may be removed.
 B. Extension: A named asset that has exceeded its service life may thereafter remain in
service only if:
   1. Such remaining in service is approved by the city pursuant to an asset naming
agreement; and
   2. The asset naming agreement:
    a. Specifies the length of time that the asset name may be used; and

    b. Provides for an endowment fund or other financial resources sufficient to pay the
asset's ongoing maintenance costs.
  C. Council Action: Unless otherwise provided in an asset naming agreement, the city
council may review, change, or remove the name of a city asset at any time consistent with
the provisions of this chapter.
 D. Expiration: Except as otherwise provided in subsection C of this section, an asset name
expires and may be available for renaming upon:
   1. The passage of twenty five (25) years;
   2. Unexpected natural events, such as flooding, earthquakes, or windstorms;
   3. The end of the asset's useful life or when the asset becomes beyond repair and must
be replaced; or
   4. The termination date or event stated in any written agreement of the city with
respect to such asset name.
3.040.070: RULES AND PROCEDURES:
The city manager may adopt rules, regulations, and procedures, including asset naming
parameters, to implement the provisions of this chapter within the guidelines set out in this
chapter.
                                      CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2025-21

         AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BUDGET FOR THE CITY OF HOLLADAY FOR
         THE FISCAL YEAR BEGINNING JULY 1, 2025 AND ENDING JUNE 30, 2026

        WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay has adopted, by ordinance, the budget
for the City for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2025 and ending June 30, 2026, in accordance
with the requirements of the state statute; and

     WHEREAS, the City Manager has prepared and filed with the City Recorder a proposed
amendment to the adopted budget for consideration by the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, said proposed amendment reflects changes in the budget to account for actual
revenues received and expenditures incurred; and

     WHEREAS, the proposed amendments have been duly noticed and a public hearing held on
November 20, 2025; and

      WHEREAS, all conditions precedent to the amendment of the budget have been
accomplished; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council determines that amending the fiscal year 2025-2026 budget is
in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the City of Holladay;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Holladay, Utah as
follows:

        Section 1.    Budget Amendment Adoption. The budget amendments attached hereto as
Exhibit A and made a part of this Ordinance are hereby adopted and incorporated in the budget
of the City of Holladay, Utah for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2025, and ending June 30,
2026, in accordance with the requirements of state law.

        Section 2.     Certification. The City Recorder is hereby directed to have this Ordinance
certified by the City Manager as the City Budget Officer.

       Section 3.     Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon posting.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this __ day of December, 2025.

                                                HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                By: ____________________________________
                                                     Robert Dahle, Mayor
[SEAL]                                          VOTING:
                                                Ty Brewer                 Yea          Nay ___
                                                Matt Durham               Yea          Nay ___
                                                Paul Fotheringham         Yea          Nay ___
                                                Drew Quinn                Yea          Nay ___
                                                Emily Gray                Yea          Nay ___
                                                Robert Dahle              Yea          Nay ___
ATTEST:
_____________________________
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
City Recorder


         DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this __ day of December, 2025.

         RECORDED this __ day of December, 2025.




                                                2
City of Holladay
Proposed Budget Amendment



                                                     FY26 Original                                      FY26 Proposed
General Ledger Account Description                     Budget            Proposed Change               Amended Budget                                 Description
General Fund
Expenditures
Admin Employee Benefits                                   292,927                      26,241                   319,168    Employee RSA program
CED Employee Benefits                                     322,441                      20,346                   342,786    Employee RSA program
Court Employee Benefits                                   124,236                      18,531                   142,767    Employee RSA program
Engineering Employee Benefits                              64,307                       4,840                    69,147    Employee RSA program
Stormwater Benefits                                        51,763                       2,074                    53,838    Employee RSA program
Computer Software                                         120,353                      13,000                   133,353    Recreation Scheduling Program
Transfer to Arts Fund                                         -                         3,000                     3,000    Creative aging city match
Increase in Fund Balance                                  182,114                     (88,031)                   94,083    Decrease in budgeted increase in fund balance
       TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENDITURE BUDGET
                      ADJUSTMENTS - GENERAL FUND $       1,158,141   $                       -     $           1,158,141

Arts Fund
Revenues
Trans from General Fund                                        -                           3,000                   3,000 Creative aging city match
Grants                                                         -                           3,000                   3,000 Creative aging grant
           TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
                        ADJUSTMENTS - ARTS FUND $              -     $                     6,000   $               6,000

Expenses
Creative aging program                                         -                           6,000                   6,000 Creative aging
            TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENSE BUDGET
                       ADJUSTMENTS -ARTS FUND $                -     $                     6,000   $               6,000

Grants Fund
Revenues
6200 S Matching Fund Transfer from CP                          -                       45,205                     45,205   6200 south invoice T group inspection, Unreimbursable costs
Highland Drive Grant                                           -                    1,230,000                  1,230,000   Highland Drive HB 488 funding
Highland Drive Transfer from CP                                -                        5,091                      5,091   WFRC Highland Drive safety audit
SLCo Housing Rehab Loan Program                                -                      220,000                    220,000   SLCo Housing rehabilitation Program
Transfer From RDA                                              -                       10,160                     10,160   SLCo Housing rehabilitation Program City RDA Match
            TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
                      ADJUSTMENTS - GRANTS FUND $              -     $              1,510,456      $           1,510,456

Expenses
6200 South Matching Funds                                      -                       45,205                     45,205 6200 south invoice T group inspection, Unreimbursable costs
                                                                                                                         Highland Drive reconstruction and complete street project HB 488,
Highland Drive UDOT project                               261,418                   1,235,091                  1,496,509 WFRC safety audit
Holladay Housing Rehab Loan Program                           -                       230,160                    230,160 Housing rehabilitation program
           TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENSE BUDGET
                      ADJUSTMENTS -GRANTS FUND $          261,418    $              1,510,456      $           1,771,874

Capital Projects Fund
Revenues
Approp Fund Balance                                      7,416,200                     50,296                  7,466,496 Increase in budgeted use of fund balance
           TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
            ADJUSTMENTS - CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND $        7,416,200   $                 50,296      $           7,466,496

Expenditures
6200 South Matching Funds                                      -                       45,205                     45,205 UDOT/ federal reimbursement nonparticipating costs
Transfer to Grants Fund                                        -                        5,091                      5,091 WFRC safety audit
      TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENDITURE BUDGET
          ADJUSTMENTS - CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND $                -     $                 50,296      $              50,296
                                      City of Holladay
                                      CITY COUNCIL

          CITY OF HOLLADAY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE: December 4th 2025
SUBJECT: Requirements of HB 48, Wildland Urban Interface Modifications
SUBMITTED BY: Jonathan Teerlink, Community and Economic Development


REQUIRED CITY COUNCIL ACTION: Legislative

SUMMARY
Review and consideration of the municipal requirements of HB 48: Wildland Urban Interface
fire protections:

   •   October 23rd
          o Overview of HB 48 included various bill requirements meant to reduce wildfire
             risk, improve public safety, and help maintain affordable fire-insurance
             availability. Two WUI overlay map options were prepared and presented.
             Discussion among the council concluded with a preferred map option.
   •   October 28th
          o Planning Commission was presented with WUI code amendments and the
             preferred map option. Public comment on the preferred WUI overlay map was
             accepted with the commission voting to recommend the overlay map as
             presented, as well as associated WUI code compliance requirements (6-0 vote)
   •   November 20th
          o Upon review of the commission’s recommendations the city council accepted
             public comment and held a discussion on the matter. The council concluded that
             a second map option should be considered; constraining the west-most WUI
             overlay boundary to the I-215 corridor. Additionally, a request to clarify
             administrative enforcement of the 2006 Utah Wildland Urban Interface code.

FISCAL IMPACT:
Undetermined. We expect additional costs for both staff, to administer the new zone overlay,
and property owners. It is possible some of those costs could be reimbursed by the new Fund,
but that is not yet known.

RECOMMENDATION
Review and discussion on the provided information and approval of either overlay option.
                                    City of Holladay
                                    CITY COUNCIL
ATTACHMENTS:
  • Holladay WUI Overlay Map –
        o Option 1, as recommended by the Planning Commission
        o Option 2, requested modification
  • Recommended Code Amendments;
        o 13.70 “Wildland Urban Interface Fire Code”
        o 13.03.030, “Site Plan Requirements”, to provide required site plan elements
           needed for permit application review and approval.
        o 15.05.01, “Technical Codes Adopted” as required by the Utah Wildland Urban
           Interface Code adopted under Utah Code Section 15A-2-103;
  • Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code, 2006 – highlights by staff
  • HB48 – highlights by staff
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2025-22

        AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY ADOPTING AMENDMENTS TO THE
       CITY CODE RELATING TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN OVERLAY ZONE FOR THE
      WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE, ADOPTING PROVISIONS OF THE WILDLAND URBAN
         INTERFACE BUILDING CODE AND MAKING OTHER RELATED AMENDMENTS

       WHEREAS, the Utah State Legislature, in 2025, adopted House Bill 48, enacting
provisions relating to fire danger in the Wildland Urban Interface areas of the state; and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to House Bill 48, municipalities of the state are required to adopt
maps relating to areas within each city corresponding to the Wildland Urban Interface and fire
safety risk; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission of the City of Holladay has held a public hearing
relating to the establishment of a map and code amendments to enact the required provisions of
House Bill 48 and has made a positive recommendation to the City Council of the City of
Holladay; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay has held a public hearing and now
desires to approve a map and code amendments relating to the same;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Municipal Council of the City of Holladay,
Utah as follows:

        Section 1. Adoption and Codification. Chapter 70 of Title 13, relating to the Wildland
Urban Interface Zone, is hereby adopted and codified to read as set forth in Exhibit A, attached
hereto an incorporated herein by reference.

        Section 2. Amendment and Codification. Section 15.08.01 of the City of Holladay
Municipal Code is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Exhibit B, attached
hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

        Section 3. Amendment and Codification. Section 13.03.030 of the City of Holladay
Municipal Code is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Exhibit C, attached
hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

       Section 4. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or posting
or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.
         PASSED AND APPROVED this __ day of December, 2025.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Robert Dahle, Mayor


[SEAL]                                           VOTING:
                                                 Ty Brewer               Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Matt Durham             Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Paul Fotheringham       Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Drew Quinn              Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Emily Gray              Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Robert Dahle            Yea      Nay ___
ATTEST:

_____________________________
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
City Recorder



         DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this   day of December, 2025.

         RECORDED this      day of December, 2025.
WUI Overlay (Zone A)
CURRENT CC DISCUSSION
 Direct Interface
 318Houses
WUI Overlay (Zone A)
PC RECOMMENDATION
 Direct Interface
 435Houses
1    TITLE 15
2    BUILDING CODES
3    CHAPTER 15.08
4    BUILDING CODES
5    SECTION:
 6   15.08.010: Technical Codes Adopted
 7   15.08.020: Fees In General
 8   15.08.030: Fees For Subpermits
 9   15.08.040: Utility Connections
10   15.08.050: Transition
11
12   15.08.010: TECHNICAL CODES ADOPTED:
13     A. As provided in title 15a of the Utah code, the building code, national electrical code,
14   residential one- and two-family dwelling code, plumbing code, mechanical code, fuel gas
15   code, energy conservation code, and manufactured housing installation standard code as
16   adopted by the uniform building code commission (collectively, the "state building code")
17   shall be applied to building construction, alteration, remodeling and repair, and in the
18   regulation of building construction, alteration, remodeling and repair in the city. When a
19   new or revised edition of any component part of the state building code is adopted by the
20   uniform building code commission this section shall be interpreted to refer to such edition
21   thereof.
22    B. The city of Holladay hereby also adopts the following codes:
23      1. The 1997 edition of the uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings
24   (UCADB), as approved by the uniform building code commission, and
25      2. The 2003 edition of the international property maintenance code, and
26      3. The 2006 edition of the Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code.
27
28   15.08.020: FEES IN GENERAL:




                                                  1
                                         City of Holladay
                                     HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                               COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE: December 4th 2025
SUBJECT: Ordinance Amendment – Royal Holladay Hills Project Signage Requirements, SDMP Standards
SUBMITTED BY: Jonathan Teerlink, CED Director


ACTION:
Legislative. Ordinance amendments are to be reviewed and considered during a public hearing prior to a
motion of final decision/action.

SUMMARY:
As anticipated on page 17th of the Site Development Master Plan (SDMP, 2007), a proposal by applicant
and property owner, KMW Development now provides missing Project Signage Standards to the “Holladay
Hills” project. Upon review of the planning commission’s recommendation of these new standards, the
council held a discussion with the property owner. The discussion centered on clarifying the setback
requirements for one sign in particular; located at the northern-most Highland Drive entrance (at the
traffic light adjacent to the Chevron Gas station).

Since this meeting, the applicant has worked with staff to provide a setback of 15 feet for this one sign,
with specific location details. All other tenant-type signs retain the commission’s 20’ recommended
setback.

SUGGESTED MOTION:
Approval.

ATTACHMENTS:
SDMP 2007, Existing Page 17
Proposed amendments

FISCAL IMPACT:
None
   HOLLADAY
   HILLS                                                                                                                 
   MULTI-TENANT SIGN LOCATION
      DRIVE
   HIGHLAND      AND
                        RODEO
                               DRIVE
                                                                              2.00%
                                                                                      SLOP
                                                                                           E
                                                                           INTE    G RE
                                                                                 RCE ASE                      9'-0"
                                                                                     PTOR




                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                   R
                                                                             INV ( IM=??
                                                                                  N
                                                                            INV ( )=?? 6"
                                                                                 S)=?
                                                                                      ? 6"
                             HIGHLAND DRIVE


                                                                        19 LF
                                                                               SS
                                                                          2.00% LINE @
                                                      13'-0"                      SLOP
                                                                                        E
                                              6'-6"
                                                                            10'-0"




                                                                                       PROPOSED
                                              15'-0"
                                                                                       MULTITENANT
                                                           14'-0"                      SIGN LOCATION
                                                                            EX. E
                                                                                 LE   C. EQ
                                                           40'-0"                           UIPM
                                                                                                 ENT

                                                 ICV                      CB
                                                                        EX. E
                                                               40'-0"




                                                                             LEC.
                                                                                  E  QUIP
                                                                                          ME
                                                         TR                                  NT


                                                                                                         FUTU
                                                                                                        MET R
                                                                                                           ER
                                                                                        EX. 5             SER
                                                                                              '
                                                                                        RIM= SSMH
                                                                                             4355
                                                                                       INV (      .4
                                                                                            E)=4 7
                                                                                                344.2
                                                                                                     2 10"




                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       RODEO DRIVE                    80'-0"
                                                                                                                                
  
            
            

            
                                                                                                                     
HOLLADAY
HILLS
MULTI-TENANT SIGN LOCATION
   DRIVE
HIGHLAND      AND
                     RODEO
                            DRIVE




                                                                                 20'-0"
                                               15'-0"                    7'-3"
                                       6'-6"            8'-6"
                                                                14'-0"

        45' FROM CORNER
    HOLLADAY
    HILLS
    MULTI-TENANT SIGN LOCATION
       DRIVE
    HIGHLAND      AND
                         RODEO
                                DRIVE




                                                             25'




                                           30'-0"

                                                    20'-0"
.
                                      CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2025-30

       A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY APPROVING
       NEW SIGNAGE CRITERIA AS A PART OF THE SITE DEVELOPMENT MASTER PLAN
       FOR THE HOLLADAY HILLS PROJECT

       WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay, in 2008, approved a Site Development
Master Plan for the development of property formerly known as the Cottonwood Mall; and

        WHEREAS, the adopted Site Development Master Plan called for the subsequent approval
of signage material for the Project; and

      WHEREAS, the Developer of the Project has presented to the City Sign Criteria for the
Development; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has held a public hearing, has reviewed the proposed
Sign Criteria and has recommended its approval; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay has held a public hearing and now
desires to approve the proposed Sign Criteria;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

        1.      Adoption. The City Council of the City of Holladay hereby approves that certain
Sign Criteria attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference for the Holladay
Hills Project and specifically approves the adoption of the Sign Criteria as an amendment to the
Site Development Master Plan for the Holladay Hills Project.

       2.     Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       3.      Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this ___ day of December, 2025.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Robert Dahle, Mayor
[SEAL]                                          VOTING:
                                                Ty Brewer                 Yea          Nay ___
                                                Matt Durham               Yea          Nay ___
                                                Paul Fotheringham         Yea          Nay ___
                                                Drew Quinn                Yea          Nay ___
                                                Emily Gray                Yea          Nay ___
                                                Robert Dahle              Yea          Nay ___

ATTEST:
_____________________________
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
City Recorder

         DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this __ day of December, 2025.

         RECORDED this ___ day of December, 2025.




                                              -2-
                                                                         Conceptual Site Lighting & Signage Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              *                      *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *

                                                                                                                                      Development signs, monument signs and directional signs




                                                                                                                              DIRECTIONAL SIGNAGE

                                                                                                                              MULTITENANT
                                                                                                                              ARRIVAL/DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                              DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                              SIGNAGE      SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                              ARRIVAL/DEVELOPMENT        IDSignage
                                                                                                                                       Arrival/Development
                                                                                                                              DEVELOPMENT      ID SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                     Arrival/Development Signage
                                                                                                                              SIGNAGE



                                                                                                                       Temporary
                                                                                                                       Temporary Site Signage Criteria
                                                                                                                                 Fencing
                                                                                                                                  q      Signage:
                                                                                                                                            g     Surrounding
                                                                                                                                                      q         p Proximity: Maximum limit of 6 Foot Height wrapping project fencing area
                                                                                                                                                              Area
                                                                                                                       Temporary    Site
                                                                                                                           Development
                                                                                                                           Construction     Signage
                                                                                                                                         Signage:
                                                                                                                                         Banners:  Limited Criteria
                                                                                                                                                           to
                                                                                                                                                   A Maximum  a maximum
                                                                                                                                                                of 1 (one)
                                                                                                                                                                     (
                                                                                                                           square footage of 800 square feet per side.
                                                                                                                                                                           of 7 two-sided
                                                                                                                                                                         ) banner per
                                                                                                                                                                                          development signs on property with maximum
                                                                                                                                                                                   p buildingg wall side with a maximum of 10% wall coverage.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          g
                                                                                                                                Directional Signage: Limited to site entrances, relocated entrances, private roads, streets, and construction areas.
                                                                                                                                Construction Banners: A Maximum of 1 (one) banner per building wall side with a maximum of 10% wall coverage.
                                                                                                                                Fencing Signage: Surrounding Area Proximity: Maximum limit of 6 Foot Height wrapping project fencing area
                                                                                                                             Directional Signage: Limited to site entrances, relocated entrances, private roads, streets, and construction areas.
                                                                                                                       Arrival, Development
                                                                                                                             Development    Signage: and
                                                                                                                                                     LimitedDirectional
                                                                                                                                                              to a maximum ofSignage
                                                                                                                                                                                 7 two-sided development signs on property with maximum
                                                                                                                               square
                                                                                                                                Arrivalfootage
                                                                                                                                           g gof 800
                                                                                                                                       gSignage:   Sitesquare   gfeet
                                                                                                                                                        Identifier     per side.
                                                                                                                                                                     signage   or sculpture
                                                                                                                                                                                   y         identifying the development.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    g      ppLimited
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                g p j to 2 locations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                g
                                                                                                                               Construction
                                                                                                                                Development Banners:      A Maximum
                                                                                                                                              Signage: Limited             of 1 (one)ofbanner
                                                                                                                                                                    to a maximum                per building
                                                                                                                                                                                        8 two-sided
                                                                                                                                                                                        7                     wall side
                                                                                                                                                                                                     development        with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    signs on a maximum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             property withof 10% wall coverage.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           maximum
                                                                                                                               Directional  Signage:   Limited
                                                                                                                                                         height
                                                                                                                                square footage of 800 square      to
                                                                                                                                                               feet   site
                                                                                                                                                                   of per                 from backentrances,
                                                                                                                                                                            setback 20'relocated
                                                                                                                                                                           entrances,
                                                                                                                                                                      20'.,side.                     of curb private roads, streets, and construction areas.
                                                                                                                                Directional Signage: Located
                                                                                                                                                         Highlandatand street  corners
                                                                                                                                                                           Rodeo   sign only - set back 15' from edge of road
                                                                                                                        *Detailed Project Sign
                                                                                                                                Directional       Criteria
                                                                                                                                            Signage:        will be
                                                                                                                                                        Located         required
                                                                                                                                                                    at street        as adopted by Planning Commission and City Council as an
                                                                                                                                                                               corners
                                                                                                                        Monument
                                                                                                                        Appendix prior Signage
                                                                                                                             ed Project   building
                                                                                                                                       to Sign      - Internal
                                                                                                                                                   permit
                                                                                                                                               Criteria willapprovals.
                                                                                                                                                             be required as a
                                                                                                                                  Monument Signage: Limited to 5' high, two sided signs                                                                                                Page 17
                                                                                                                       *Detailed Project Sign Criteria will be required as adopted by Planning Commission and City Council as an
                       *Detailed Photometric Plan required as adopted by Planning Commission and City Council as an              Project
                                                                                                                        DetailedProject
                                                                                                                       Appendix
                                                                                                                      *Detailed   prior to Sign
                                                                                                                                         Sign   Criteria
                                                                                                                                                       willadopted
                                                                                                                                           building  permit
                                                                                                                                              Criteria             by the
                                                                                                                                                            beapprovals.
                                                                                                                                                               required  as Planning Commission
                                                                                                                                                                            adopted by            and City Council
                                                                                                                                                                                       Planning Commission         as Council
                                                                                                                                                                                                            and City  Appendixas A,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 an
                       Appendix prior to building permit approvals.                                                             to administrative
                                                                                                                        subject prior
                                                                                                                      Appendix                      staff review
                                                                                                                                      to building permit          prior to building permit approval.
                                                                                                                                                           approvals.                                                         Page 17 of                                                                                         28
Draft Date: 12/11/07

                                                             Cottonwood
                                      Site Development Master Plan - Regional Mixed-Use Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                These plans are instruments of professional service and are protected by Common Law, Statutory, and other Reserved Rights including
                                                                                                                                                                                                Copyright. They may not be reproduced or used for any purpose without the written consent of General Growth Properties, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                  10'-3"

APPENDIX A: Project Sign Criteria




                                                                                                                                         4'-6"
                                                                                                   MEASUREMENTS
                 11'-2"                                                                            OVERALL SIGN: 22’H20'Hx x12’11'-2"W
                                                                                                                                3”W
                  9'-0"                                                                            SIGNBOX:
                                                                                                   LIFE        4'-6"H
                                                                                                             4’H        x 9'W
                                                                                                                  x 9’ 11”W
                                                                                                        TIME SIGNBOX:     4’ 8”H x 10’ 10”W
                                                                                                   LIFE TIME LOGO: 7’ 9” wide




                                                                                                                                           3'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                         20'-0"
                                                                    MEASUREMENTS



                                                   4'-6"
                                                                    OVERALL SIGN: 20’H x 11’ 2”W
                                                                             4'-6"H
                                                                    SIGNBOX: 4’H      x 9'W
                                                                                 x 9’ 11”W
                                                                    TENANT LOGO: 7’ wide
                                                           20'-0"


                                                                        ADD AN ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                          MONUMENT
                                                                        SIGN TO THIS LOCATION

                                                                                                                                                                  12'-3"




                                           MEASUREMENTS
                                                          20'H
                                           OVERALL SIGN: 17’ 1”H xx 14'W
                                                                    10’ 6”W
                                           SIGNBOX: 11’
                                                     14'H  x 8'W




                                                                                                                                                                                                        20'-0"
                                                        10”H x 7’W
                                                                8'-0"




                                                                                               DEVELOPMENT
                15'-6"


                                  15'-6"
       20'-0"


                         20'-0"




                                                                                                    20'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                  DIRECTIONAL SIGNAGE

                                                                                                                                                                                                  MULTITENANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ARRIVAL/DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                   DIRECTIONAL SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SIGNAGE        SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                                   MEASUREMENTS
                                                                                                                                                      MEASUREMENTS                                 MULTITENANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ARRIVAL/DEVELOPMENT
                                                             14'-0"                                                                                                                               ARRIVAL/DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                   DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Arrival/Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ID SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SIGNAGE    IDSign
                                                                                                                                                   OVERALL        20'H
                                                                                                                                                           SIGN:SIGN:
                                                                                                                                                       OVERALL   17’     xx 14'W
                                                                                                                                                                       14’H
                                                                                                                                                                     1”H          7”W
                                                                                                                                                                             x 8’6”W
                                                                                                                                                                            10’
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                                         SIGNBOX: 9’ 9”H x 7’W
                                                                                                                                                                                                   DEVELOPMENT ID SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                                         NOTE: FINAL SIGN HEIGHT STILL TBD
 APPENDIX A: Project Sign Criteria
            Development
 Conceptual Monument  SignSign
                           A A




                                     SITE PLAN LOCATION




PHOTO RENDERING - DAY                DETAILED LOCATION




                                                          HOLLADAY HILLS | SIGN PACKAGE   5
APPENDIX A: Project Sign Criteria
           Development
Conceptual Monument  SignSign
                          A A
MEASUREMENTS                                                                             12’12'-3"
                                                                                             2.75”
OVERALL SIGN:
          SIGN: 22’H
                 22’H xx 12’ 3”W                                                          7’10'-3"
                                                                                             9.5”
OVERALL           20'H x12’12'-3"
                           11'-2"W
                             3”W
LIFE TIME
SIGNBOX:
LIFE      SIGNBOX:
            4'-6"H
            4'-6"H
           4’H
     TIME SIGNBOX:   X 4’ 8”H xx 10’
                          8”H
                       10'-3"W
                     x 9'W
               x 9’ 11”W
                       4’        10’ 10”W
                                     10
LIFE TIME LOGO: 7’ 9” wide




                                                                            4’ 7”




                                                                                                      3’ 5.75”
                                                                                         10’10'-3"
                                                                                             10.35”                                      2’
                                                                                          7’ 9.15”



                                                                                                                  2.2”




                                                                                                                                            4.15”
                                                        7.75”
                                                                                        TENANT




                                                                                                                                         7’6'-6"
                                                     4’4'-6"

                                                                  2’                                             5.5”
                                               22’
                                            20'-0"

                                                      16’ 1.75”




                                                                                                                                          14’ 8”
                                                                                                                                          14'-6"
                                                                                                                                         13'-6"
                                                     14'-6"

                                                                  8’ 2.1”

                                                                              5’ 8.1”




                       ISOMETRIC VIEW
                                                                                          10'-3"
                                                                                          8’ 3.5”                 1’ 6.5”




                                                                                                                                 1’ 9”
                                                                                                                            HOLLADAY HILLS | SIGN PACKAGE   7
 APPENDIX A: Project Sign Criteria
            Development
 Conceptual Monument  SignSign
                           B
                           A A B




                                     SITE PLAN LOCATION




PHOTO RENDERING                      DETAILED LOCATION




                                                          HOLLADAY HILLS | SIGN PACKAGE   8
APPENDIX A: Project Sign Criteria
           Development
Conceptual Monument  SignSign
                          B
                          A A B
                                                    11’ 2”
MEASUREMENTS
                                                                               .5”
OVERALL SIGN: 20’H x 11’ 2”W
SIGNBOX: 4’H x 9’ 11”W                                                                                       DETAIL A




                                4’ 2”
                                        3’ 2”
                                                                                                           SCALE 1 : 10
TENANT LOGO: 7’ wide




                                                    9’ 10.6”
                                                        1"
                                                       7’




                                                                                         6”
                                                  TENANT




                                                                                                            8.1”
                                                                                                         6’7'-0"
                                        3’ 2.4”
                                                   NAME
                                                                                     A




                                                               4’
                                                                                 5”
                               20’




                                                                                                         11’
                                                                       6”
                                                                    1’ 10.5”

                                                    10’ 10”
                                                                                              1’ 10.5”




                                                                                                   HOLLADAY HILLS | SIGN PACKAGE   9
 APPENDIX A: Project Sign Criteria
                         Development
 Conceptual Multi-Tenant Monument  SignSign
                                        B
                                        A A B
                                            C




                                                SITE PLAN LOCATION




PHOTO RENDERING                                 DETAILED LOCATION
                                                SIGN TO BE SET BACK A MINIMUM OF 15' FROM THE
                                                EDGE OF HIGHLAND DRIVE.


                                                                     HOLLADAY HILLS | SIGN PACKAGE   10
APPENDIX A: Project Sign Criteria
                        Development
                        Monument
Conceptual Multi-Tenant Monument  Sign A A
                                  SignSign
                                       B   C
                                           B
MEASUREMENTS                                                                                        14'-0"
                                                                                                    10’ 6”
                                                                                                     10'
                                                                                                     8'
                                                                                                     7’
OVERALL SIGN: 17’
               20'-0"H  x 14'-0"W
                  1”H x 10’ 6”W   20'-0"w X 13'-
                                                                                                      8'3”
                                                                                                    5’6'
SIGNBOX: 11’
          15'-6"H
             10”H xx7’W
                     10'-0"W




                                                                                                               2’ 3”
                                                                                                                 2’
                                                                                                                       2’
                                                                                                    10'8'-0"
                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                      7’                1’ 6.25”


                                                                                                                                       1.5”




                                                                                                               9’ 2”
                                                                               10.25”
                                                                           11’ 15'-6"
                                                    20'-0"




                                                                                        1'-6" 1’
                                                   17’ 1”

                                                                  12'-0"
                                                             11’ 9”




                                                                                         1’ 9.75”
                                                                           5’ 2.75”




                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                     7’                2’




                                                                                                                                   1’ 9”
                                                                                                    14'-0"
                   ,620(75,&9,(:




                                                                                                                                   HOLLADAY HILLS | SIGN PACKAGE   11
 APPENDIX A: Project Sign Criteria
 Conceptual Multi-Tenant Development
            Multi-TenantBridge Monument
                         Monument       B
                                   SignSign B
                                            DC
                                        A Sign
                                            A




                                                 SITE PLAN LOCATIONS




PHOTO RENDERING                                  DETAILED LOCATIONS




                                                                       HOLLADAY HILLS | SIGN PACKAGE   12
APPENDIX A: Project Sign Criteria
Conceptual Multi-Tenant Development
           Multi-TenantBridge Monument
                        Monument       B
                                  SignSign B
                                           DC
                                       A Sign
                                           A
MEASUREMENTS                                                                  12'-0"
                                                                              8’ 7.25”
                                                                              5’8'-0"
                                                                                 8.75”
OVERALL SIGN: 14’H
                20'-0"H   x 12'-0"W
                    x 8’ 7”W                                                   4’ 3.6”
                                                                               6'-0"
SIGNBOX: 9’13'-6"H x 8'-0"W
            9”H x 7’W
NOTE: FINAL SIGN HEIGHT STILL TBD




                                                                                                               1’ 10.25”
                                                                                         1’ 7.6”
                                                                               8'-0"
                                                                                  7’                                                 1’ 7.6”




                                                                                                                                       1.25”




                                                                                                      4.5”
                                                                                                   4’6'-0"
                                                          7’ 7.9”
                                                          10'-6"
                                                  8.75”
                                               13'-6"
                                               9’



                                                                       1.9”
                                                                    3'-0"
                                      20'-0"
                                        14’




                                                                    2’




                                                                                                   9’ 14'-0"
                                                                                                      7.75”
                                                  3.5”
                                               6'-6"
                                               4’




                                                                                                                                     1’ 5.25”
                                                                                                                           1’ 3”
                    ISOMETRIC VIEW                                                                                         1’ 7.6”




                                                                                                                                       HOLLADAY HILLS | SIGN PACKAGE   13
APPENDIX A: Project Sign Criteria
Conceptual Parking & Directional Signage




PARKING SIGN CONCEPT (STILL IN DEVELOPMENT)   DIRECTIONAL SIGN CONCEPT (STILL IN DEVELOPMENT)




                                                                                          HOLLADAY HILLS | SIGN PACKAGE   14
                                      CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                     RESOLUTION NO. 2025-

               A RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE 2025 ANNUAL MEETING
               SCHEDULE FOR THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
               HOLLADAY.

       WHEREAS, Section 52-4-6 Utah Code requires any public body that holds regular
meetings which are scheduled for a year, to give public notice of its annual meeting schedule;
and
       WHEREAS, the Municipal Council has established its 2025 meeting schedule, attached as
Exhibit “A”; and
         WHEREAS, formal approval of such meeting schedules is required by Municipal Council
rules;
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Municipal Council of the City of Holladay,
Utah, as follows:
            (1) That the 2026 Annual Regular Meeting Schedule attached as Exhibit “A” is
                adopted.
            (2) That said schedule be published as required by law.

         PASSED AND APPROVED this 4th day of December, 2025.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Robert Dahle, Mayor

[SEAL]                                           VOTING:
                                                 Ty Brewer                Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Matt Durham              Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Paul Fotheringham        Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Drew Quinn               Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Emily Gray               Yea      Nay ___
                                                 Robert Dahle             Yea      Nay ___
ATTEST:

_____________________________
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
City Recorder


           DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 4th day of December, 2025
                          RECORDED this 4th day of December, 2025
                                  PUBLIC NOTICE OF THE
                          REGULAR 2026 MEETING SCHEDULE FOR THE
                                HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

Pursuant to UCA 52-4-202(2), notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay will typically hold its regular
City Council meetings for the year 2026 on the first and third Thursdays of each month. The Council may also
meet on the second Thursday of every month for a work meeting beginning at 5:30 pm.
The meetings are anticipated to be held on:

                  January 8, 2026                        July 9, 2026 *
                  January 2, 2026                        July 16, 2026
                  February 5, 2026                       August 6, 2026
                  February 19, 2026                      August 20, 2026
                  March 5, 2026                          September 3, 2026
                  March 19, 2026                         September 17, 2026
                  April 2, 2026                          October 1, 2026
                  April 16, 2026                         October 8 or 22, 2026 **
                  May 7, 2026                            November 65, 2026
                  May 21, 2026                           November 19, 2026
                  June 4, 2026                           December 3, 2026
                  June18, 2026                           December 10, 2026*
* 2nd Thursday
** 4th Thursday

Briefing sessions typically begin at 5:30 p.m. followed by regular Council meetings at 6:00 p.m. Meetings
are held in the City Council Chambers at 4580 S 2300 E, Holladay UT 84117.

The City Council reserves the right to adjust the above meeting schedule as needed, pursuant to the
applicable provisions of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.

All City Council meetings and work sessions are open to the public unless closed pursuant to Sections 52-4-
2044 and 52-4-205 of the Utah Code relative to the applicable provisions of the Utah Open Meetings Act.
Special or emergency meetings in addition to those specified may be held as circumstances require. A
minimum of 24 hours' notice will be given for such meetings

In accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Holladay will accommodate
reasonable requests to assist the disabled to participate in the meetings. Request for assistance can be
made by calling the City Offices at 272-9450 from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday at least
48 hours in advance of the meeting to be attended.

Dated this 4th day of December 2025.

BY ORDER OF THE HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
Holladay City Recorder
Utah Renewable Communities
      Fall 2025 Update
Our involvement in URC
• We joined the Community Renewable Energy Agency (aka the URC
  board) and subsequently made our financial contributions to the
  Agency's budget, which was proportional to our community's
  population and energy load
• We signed the Utility Agreement along with all the other participating
  communities in time to be included in the initial Program Application
  filing in January 2025
• After the PSC approves the program (possibly as early as January 2026)
  we will have a final decision whether to adopt the Program Ordinance



                                                                           2
What URC is anticipated to look like for customers
• URC customers remain RMP customers receiving reliable power
• Upon program launch, URC customers will be automatically enrolled
  the URC program with the choice to opt-out                                       ELECTRIC   Information about
     • A customer's desire to support and use clean energy and the estimated         BILL        the program
       impact on their bill will likely be factors influencing their decision
• There will be no cost to opt-out initially, after that, there will be a fee
  to terminate participation                                                                    Cost to participate
                                                                                                 & credit if low-
• The URC board's position is that the program increase the average                                   income
  household's electric bill by no more than $3-4/month
• Low-income customer* provisions:
     •   Ongoing outreach and engagement
     •   Monthly bill credit to cover the monthly increase
     •   Waived termination fee (if they decide to opt-out later in the program)
     •   Like all customers, can always choose to opt-out

*These provisions will apply to customers enrolled in RMP Schedule 3 Home Electric Lifeline Plan (HELP)
                                                                                                            3
    Status of URC program development
 Years of negotiation led to RMP filing two "dockets" with the Public Service
 Commission, (1) regarding solicitation of program resources in November 2024
 and (2) the remaining full Program Application in January and June 2025


                 (1) RFP                       (1) Program Application
• Solicitation process approved by       • URC filed its testimony into the
  PSC in May 2025                          docket in July 2025 and testimony
• Launched RFP with bids due July          from other parties, including the
  10; received 14 qualifying bids          Office of Consumer Services and
• Following several rounds of scoring      Division of Public Utilities, was filed
  and evaluation, the Program Design       on October 10
  Committee forwarded top 6 bids         • Rounds of rebuttal and surrebuttal
  (the "Initial Short List") to            through early December
  PacifiCorp for the next stage of       • PSC hearing scheduled for
  evaluation in September 2025             December 16


                                                                                     4
                          AFFORDABLE HOUSING AGREEMENT
                                            [BLOCK E]

         This Affordable Housing Agreement (“Agreement”) is made and entered into as of
________ ____, 2025 (the “Effective Date”), by and among the Redevelopment Agency of the
City of Holladay, a Utah community development and renewal agency (“RDA”), the City of
Holladay, a Utah municipal corporation (“City”), and KMW Development L.L.C., a Utah limited
liability company (“Developer”). The RDA, City, and Developer may be referred to herein singly
as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties.”

                                             Recitals

       A.     Developer is the fee owner and master developer of the real property located within
the “Cottonwood Mall Urban Renewal Project Area” in the City of Holladay, Salt Lake County,
Utah (the “Project”).

       B.     City and Developer are subject to that certain Fourth Amended and Restated
Agreement for Development of Land dated April 21, 2022 (as amended and restated, the “ADL”),
which provides for, among other things, the development of affordable housing within the Project.

       C.       Pursuant to the ADL, Developer is responsible for providing fifty (50) units of
affordable housing restricted to households earning no more than eighty percent (80%) of the Area
Median Family Income. An additional fifty (50) units of affordable housing, as set forth in the
Taxing Entities Committee Resolution (“TEC”) attached to the ADL as Attachment No. 6, are the
responsibility of the City.

       D.      The purpose of this Agreement is to establish the terms and conditions under which
one hundred (100) residential units to be located within the portion of the Project known as “Block
E” (“Block E”) may be designated, restricted, and administered as affordable housing units,
thereby satisfying the combined affordable housing obligations of both Developer and the City
under the ADL and the TEC, subject to the provisions of this Agreement.

                                           Agreement

       In consideration of the foregoing recitals and the terms and conditions herein set forth, and
for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

        1.      Term. The term of this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall
continue until the earlier of (i) a period of twenty (20) years measured from the date the first
certificate of occupancy is issued for the Block E building, or (ii) the date of early termination
allowed in accordance with Section 5 below (the “Term”).

       2.      Affordable Housing Coordination and Implementation. In exchange for
Developer’s commitment to operate up to one hundred (100) residential units to be located within
Block E as affordable housing units (the “Affordable Units”), the RDA shall provide the
consideration to Developer set forth in Section 3 of this Agreement.

                                                 1
(a) Definition of Affordable Housing. For purposes of this Agreement, “Affordable Housing”
    means a residential unit affordable to households earning eighty percent (80%) or less of
    the Salt Lake City, Utah Metropolitan Statistical Area Median Family Income, as
    determined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”)
    for the applicable year.

(b) Responsibilities Relative to Operation of Affordable Housing Program. The Parties agree
    to the responsibilities described below that during the Term:

       i. Developer or its affiliate(s) shall ensure that the rental rate for the Affordable Units
          will be in accordance with the rental calculation provision in subsection 2(d) below.

      ii. The City shall be responsible for prequalifying applicants for the one hundred (100)
          Affordable Units and for supplying to Developer the names of qualified individuals
          meeting the requirements of this Agreement.

     iii. Developer shall not be required to keep any Affordable Units vacant while the City
          completes its qualification process.

     iv. The Affordable Units shall be leased as units become available during the normal
         course of leasing within Block E.

(c) Construction Commitment. Developer shall obtain permit(s) authorizing commencement
    of construction activities for the multi-family project on Block E no later than December
    31, 2027 (the “Permit Deadline”). Upon obtaining such permit(s), Developer shall
    diligently pursue and continue construction to completion of the improvements to provide
    the housing contemplated by this Agreement within Block E. If Developer fails to obtain
    such permit by the Permit Deadline, then Developer shall, no later than one (1) year
    following such failure to meet the Permit Deadline, return to the City all amounts paid by
    the City at the execution of this Agreement and any amounts otherwise paid to Developer
    under this Agreement.

(d) Affordable Housing Verification. The City shall confirm Developer’s compliance with the
    Affordable Housing requirements by verifying the total number of Affordable Units
    operated within Block E and Developer shall provide an annual report of the units leased
    to qualifying individuals during the Term. Parties affirm that under the ADL no more than
    100 Affordable Units need to be made available. The City’s verification process shall
    follow the reporting format and calculation methodology attached hereto as Exhibit A
    (Affordable Units Rent Calculation) and Exhibit B (Affordable Housing Compliance
    Report), as shall be updated by the Parties annually, or at such other time as agreed to by
    the Parties.

(e) Rent Calculation for Affordable Units. A dwelling unit for rent shall be deemed Affordable
    Housing if the rent charged for that unit type does not exceed the maximum monthly rent



                                              2
       calculated using the formulas provided annually, the first year for which is attached as
       Exhibit A.

   (f) Reporting Requirements. Prior to any request by Developer for payment other than the
       initial payments to be made at execution of this Agreement, Developer shall submit to the
       City a completed Affordable Housing Compliance Form in the form attached hereto as
       Exhibit B, identifying the Affordable Units under operation or management as of the
       reporting date. The City shall confirm the data and provide written acknowledgment of
       compliance to the RDA.

   (g) Interim Compliance. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, prior to the first
       compliance review under this Agreement, Developer shall be deemed to be in compliance
       with the Affordable Housing requirements upon execution of this Agreement. Thereafter,
       Developer’s ongoing compliance shall be verified by the City in accordance with this
       Section 2.

   (h) Remittance and Report. To the extent that any of the one hundred (100) Affordable Units
       are not leased to prequalified individuals, and there are not prequalified individuals
       sufficient for the available one hundred (100) Affordable Units, Developer may, in its
       discretion, lease such units at prevailing market rental rates. For each such unit leased at
       market rate, Developer shall remit to the RDA an amount equal to the difference between
       (i) the total rent collected at market rate, only if greater than then applicable Affordable
       Housing rent, and (ii) the then applicable Affordable Housing rent as determined under
       Section 2(d) of this Agreement. Remittance shall be made annually, concurrent with
       Developer’s submission of the Affordable Housing Compliance Report required under
       Section 2(e). Together with each remittance, Developer shall provide to the RDA and the
       City: (x) a report identifying each unit leased at market rate during the prior year and the
       calculated rent differential, and (y) a report of those units within Block E available or soon
       to be available as Affordable Units, including lease commencement and expiration dates,
       to assist the City in anticipating move-in dates for Affordable Housing tenants.


        3.     Consideration. In consideration of Developer’s agreement and continuing
obligation to operate the Affordable Units as described herein, which the Parties acknowledge is
good and sufficient consideration, the Parties agree to pay and receive amounts collected from
within the Project for affordable housing as follows:

   (a) RDA agrees: (a) with respect to the Affordable Units required under the TEC to be fulfilled
       by the City, the RDA shall authorize the release of Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000)
       currently held in the Retention Account (as defined in the ADL) to Developer; and (b) with
       respect to any and all other Affordable Units required under the ADL, (i) RDA shall
       authorize the release of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) currently held in the
       Retention Account to Developer, and (ii) remit to Developer, on an annual basis during the
       Term, including any “Post Term Period” as described in Section 5 below, all amounts
       received by the RDA that are allocated for affordable housing within the RDA’s
       Cottonwood Mall Urban Renewal Project Area (“CMURPA”) boundaries, including,


                                                 3
           without limitation, any such amounts derived from areas outside of the Project but within
           the CMURPA, such as parcels located north of Murray Holladay Road and west of
           Highland Drive, provided, however, that Developer shall not be entitled to the automatic
           remittance of Affordable Housing collected by the RDA outside of the Project but within
           the CMURPA, such funds shall be administered as set forth in Section 3(b) below.

       (b) RDA shall hold amounts collected for affordable housing outside of the Project but within
           the CMURPA in a reserve account, to be administered by the RDA and allocated for the
           purposes required by the ADL, provided, however, that prior to expending or committing
           such reserve funds the RDA shall consult and coordinate with Developer so that the Parties
           may evaluate whether use of such affordable housing funds would be appropriate within
           the Project even though such affordable housing funds were generated outside of the
           Project.

        4.      Deed Restriction (Notice of Affordable Housing Agreement); Release. Promptly
after the Effective Date, the Parties shall execute and record against Block E, but expressly
excluding those portions of Block E that are sold to individual unit owners, a short-form “Notice
of Affordable Housing Agreement”, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit D, for the sole
purpose of providing record notice of the existence of this Agreement and the Affordable Units.
Developer may unilaterally amend the Notice to exclude any portions of Block E that are
subsequently subdivided, sold, or otherwise developed into separate parcels, including without
limitation condominiums or retail areas. The Notice shall be released of record upon the earlier of:
(a) the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Effective Date if the RDA timely exercises its termination
right pursuant to Section 5 below; or (b) expiration of the Term if no early termination occurs. The
RDA and the City shall execute and deliver all documents reasonably required to effectuate such
release within ten (10) business days of request by either Party.

        5.      Early Termination; Repayment. On the seventh (7th) anniversary from the
_____________ 1, the RDA shall have the right, exercisable by written notice of termination
delivered to Developer within thirty (30) days following such anniversary, to terminate this
Agreement effective as of the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Effective Date. If the RDA timely
exercises the termination right under this Section 5, then following termination on the tenth (10th)
anniversary, Developer shall repay to the City Five Million Five Hundred Thousand and No/100
Dollars ($5,500,000.00), reduced dollar-for-dollar by the aggregate amount of all remittances paid
to the RDA pursuant to Section 2(f) above prior to such termination. Such repayment shall be
made in ten (10) equal, annual installments on each anniversary of the Effective Date from the
eleventh (11th) anniversary through and including the twentieth (20th) anniversary, together with
simple interest on the unpaid balance, commencing after the first installment, at the two-year
United States Treasury Rate, not to exceed four and one-half percent (4.5%) per year, until paid.
In the event of an early termination as set forth in this Section 5, RDA shall continue to remit to
Developer, during a post term period commencing on the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Effective
Date and continuing until what would have been the end of the Term if there had been no early
termination (the “Post Term Period”), annually the Developer’s Housing Allocation earned
within the Project, and shall administer amounts collected outside of the Project but within the
CMURPA as set forth in Subsection 3(b) above.

1
    NTD: Parties to establish date for measuring the 7 year termination option.

                                                           4
        6.      Conflicts. The terms of this Agreement are intended to implement the terms of the
ADL, including, without limitation, Sections 2.4 and 7.5 of the ADL. The terms of this Agreement
are intended to be controlling as they relate to the provisions of Affordable Housing in the Project,
the obligations of the Parties relating to the implementation of Affordable Housing, and the
Developer’s Housing Allocation (as defined in the ADL). The terms of the ADL are intended to
remain in full force and effect without amendment except as supplemented herein.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of any conflict between this Agreement and the ADL
and/or the TEC with respect to Affordable Units only, this Agreement shall control.

        7.      Amendment. This Agreement may only be amended by written instrument signed
by the RDA, City, and the Developer and/or their respective successors or assigns. This Agreement
constitutes the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to the subject matter addressed herein.

        8.     Enforcement. All of the terms, provisions and restrictions of this Agreement may
be enforced by any of the Parties hereto and in the event of a breach of this Agreement, each Party
shall have such remedies as may be available in law or in equity.

        9.       Notices. All notices under this Agreement shall be in writing and delivered by (a)
personal delivery, (b) certified or registered U.S. mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid,
(c) nationally recognized overnight courier, or (d) email with confirmation of transmission, in each
case addressed as set forth below (or to such other address as a Party may designate by notice in
accordance with this Section). Notices shall be deemed given: (i) upon delivery if by personal
delivery, (ii) three (3) business days after deposit if mailed, (iii) one (1) business day after deposit
with an overnight courier, or (iv) on the date sent if by email, provided a copy is sent the same day
by one of the foregoing methods.

                     To RDA:           Redevelopment RDA of the City of Holladay
                                       4580 South 2300 East
                                       Holladay, UT 84117
                                       Attn: Chairperson

                     With copies to: Hayes Godfrey Bell, PC
                                     2118 East 3900 South, Suite 300
                                     Holladay, UT 84124
                                     Attn: Todd J. Godfrey

                     To City:          City of Holladay
                                       4580 South 2300 East
                                       Holladay, UT 84124
                                       Attn: City Manager

                     To Developer: KMW Development L.L.C.
                                   6510 South Millrock Drive, Suite 450
                                   Holladay, UT 84121
                                   Attn: Steve Peterson


                                                   5
                     With copies to: Woodbury Corporation
                                     2733 East Parleys Way, Suite 300
                                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84109
                                     Attn: Office of General Counsel

                                      Snell & Wilmer, LLP
                                      15 West South Temple, Suite 1200
                                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84101
                                      Attn: Wade Budge

       10.     Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State of Utah.

        11.     Exhibits and Recitals. All exhibits and attachments attached hereto are incorporated
herein by this reference. The Recitals are hereby incorporated into this Agreement.

        12.     Waiver. No action or failure to act by the Parties shall constitute a waiver of any
right or duty afforded any Party under this Agreement, nor shall any such action or failure to act
constitute approval of or acquiescence in any breach hereunder, except as may be specifically
agreed to in writing. A waiver by a Party of a breach hereunder by the other Party shall not be
construed as a waiver of any succeeding breach of the same or other provisions.

       13.      Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed by the different Parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be an original, and all of which taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

        14.    Severability. If any provision of this Agreement or the application thereof to any
Party or circumstances shall be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the remainder of this
Agreement and the application of such provisions to any other Party or circumstance shall not be
affected thereby and shall be enforced to the greatest extent permitted by law.

        15.    Headings. Titles or headings to paragraphs of this Agreement are for convenience
only, and neither limit nor amplify the provisions of this Agreement.

        16.     Survival. The provisions described as continuing beyond the Term, including the
Post Term Period, shall survive the early termination of the Agreement and continue until fulfilled
by the Parties.




                                                 6
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be signed as of the
Effective Date.

                                         DEVELOPER:

                                         KMW DEVELOPMENT L.L.C.,
                                         a Utah limited liability company

                                           By: WOODBURY CORPORATION, a Utah
                                           corporation
                                           Its: Manager

                                               By: __________________________
                                               Its: __________________________

                                               By: __________________________
                                               Its: __________________________

                                           By: MILLROCK CAPITAL II, LLC, a Utah
                                           limited liability company
                                           Its: Manager

                                               By: __________________________
                                               Its: __________________________




                         [Signatures Continue on Following Page]




                                           7
                                              RDA:

                                              REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE
                                              CITY OF HOLLADAY


                                              By:
                                                    [___________], Chairperson

Attest:

By:___________________________________
    [_____________], Executive Director


Approved as to form:



____________________________



                                              CITY:

                                              CITY OF HOLLADAY, A UTAH
                                              MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                              By:
                                                    [___________], Mayor

Attest:

By:___________________________________
    [_____________], City Recorder


Approved as to form:



____________________________




                                          8
             EXHIBIT A
Example Affordable Units Rent Calculation




                   9
               EXHIBIT B
Example Affordable Housing Compliance Form




                   10
             EXHIBIT C
       Affordable Unit Floor Plan

[TO BE ADDED AFTER PERMIT DEADLINE]




                  11
                                        EXHIBIT D
                        Form Notice of Affordable Housing Agreement

WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO
Woodbury Corporation
2733 East Parleys Way, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, Utah 84109
Attn: Office of General Counsel


                                                           Affecting Parcel No. 22-09-228-042

                                SPACE ABOVE THIS LINE FOR USE BY THE RECORDER

                 NOTICE OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING AGREEMENT

        This Notice of Affordable Housing Agreement is executed as of this ___ day of
___________, 2025, to provide notice that certain units located within the real property more
particularly described on Exhibit 1 attached hereto (“Block E”) are subject to the terms and
conditions of that certain Affordable Housing Agreement dated as of ____________ ___, 2025 by
and among the Redevelopment Agency of the City of Holladay, a Utah community development
and renewal agency, the City of Holladay, a Utah municipal corporation, and KMW Development
L.L.C., a Utah limited liability company (“Developer”).

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Developer, the fee simple owner of Block E, has executed
this Notice of Affordable Housing Agreement and authorized its recording with the Salt Lake
County, Utah Recorder.


                       [Signature and Acknowledgement Pages Follow]




                                              12
         DEVELOPER:

         KMW DEVELOPMENT L.L.C.,
         a Utah limited liability company

           By: WOODBURY CORPORATION, a Utah
           corporation
           Its: Manager

                By: __________________________
                Its: __________________________

                By: __________________________
                Its: __________________________

           By: MILLROCK CAPITAL II, LLC, a Utah
           limited liability company
           Its: Manager

                By: __________________________
                Its: __________________________

[Acknowledgements Follow]




           13
STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

      The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ____ day of
___________, 202__, by ________________________ as the ______________ of
WOODBURY CORPORATION, a Utah corporation, the Manager of KMW
DEVELOPMENT L.L.C., a Utah limited liability company.


                                                __________________________________
                                                Notary Public



STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ____ day of _________,
202__, by ________________________ as the ______________ of WOODBURY
CORPORATION, a Utah corporation, the Manager of KMW DEVELOPMENT L.L.C., a
Utah limited liability company.


                                                __________________________________
                                                Notary Public


STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ___ day of ___________,
202__, by _____________________ as the _____________________ of MILLROCK
CAPITAL II, LLC, a Utah limited liability company, the Manager of KMW
DEVELOPMENT L.L.C., a Utah limited liability company.


                                                __________________________________
                                                Notary Public




                                           14
                                         EXHIBIT “1”

                                 Legal Description of Block E

       That certain real property located in Salt Lake County, State of Utah, more particularly
described as follows:

Block E, Royal Holladay Hills Subdivision #2, according to the official plat thereof, recorded
June 25, 2021, as Entry No. 13700581 in Book 2021P at Page 171, on file and of record in the
office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.




                                               Exhibit 1
                               Notice of Affordable Housing Agreement
