                                 NOTICE OF A MEETING OF THE
                               CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                   THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 2026

5:00 p.m.     Council Dinner – Council members will be eating dinner. No city business will be
              discussed.

5:30 p.m.     Briefing Session - The Council will review and discuss the agenda items; NO decisions will
              be made

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a Council meeting
on Thursday, March 5, 2026 at 6:00 pm. Members of the Council may participate by electronic means
if needed. The Council Chambers shall serve as the anchor location.
* Agenda items may be moved in order, sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or in this agenda. Interested
parties are encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

To provide a public comment or make a comment during any public hearing, may do so in the following ways:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@holladayut.gov


                                                    AGENDA


I.       Welcome – Mayor Fotheringham

II.      Pledge of Allegiance –Maren Erickson

III.     Public Comments
         Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda may provide their
         comment via email to the Council before 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting to
         scarlson@holladayut.gov with the subject line: Public Comment. Comments are subject to the
         Public Comment Policy set forth below

IV.      Public Hearing on Proposed 2025-2026 Budget Amendments

V.       Consideration of Resolution 2026-07 Adopting the 2026 Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation
         Plan

VI.      Consideration of Resolution 2026 –08 Approving an Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake
         County for the Use of the Holladay Skate Park

VII.     Consent Agenda
         a. Approval of Minutes – Jan 9 & , Feb. 5, 2026
VIII.     City Manager Report – Gina Chamness

IX.       Council Report & District Issues

X.        Recess City Council in a Work Meeting:
          a. NIMS Training - Allison

          b. Continued Business License Fee Study Discussion – Fred Philpot

          c. Highland Dr Update - Jared

          d. Discussion on Fee Schedule for Sports Field - Holly
          e. Proposed Software RFP Update - Jon
          f. Calendar
             Council Meetings –March 19, April 16 – April 23 or 30??
             Tiny Art Show – March 6-12
             Speaker Series – March 16
XI.       Closed Session For the Purpose(s) Described in U.C.A. 52-4-204 and
          205

XII.      Adjourn



 Public Comment Polic & Procedure: During each regular Council Meeting there will be a Public Comment
 Time. The purpose of the Public Comment Time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council. Citizens requesting to
 address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and present it to the City Recorder. In general,
 the Chairman will allow an individual three minutes to address the Council. A spokesman, recognized as
 representing a group in attendance, may be allowed up to five minutes. Comments which cannot be made within
 these time limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting so
 they can be copied and distributed to the Council. At the conclusion of the Citizen Comment time, the Chairman
 may direct staff to assist the citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative
 department(s); or take no action. This policy also applies to all Public Hearings.


CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I certify that the above agenda notice was posted at Holladay City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the
Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,and the Holladay Library.

DATE POSTED: Monday, March 2, 2026 at 11:00 am
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC, City Recorder
City of Holladay


         Reasonable accommodation for individuals with disabilities or those needing language interpretation
      services can be provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at
             least three days in advance. TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
City of Holladay
Proposed Budget Amendment
                                                       FY26 Original                                      FY26 Proposed
General Ledger Account Description                       Budget            Proposed Change               Amended Budget                         Description
General Fund
Revenues
Appropriated Fund Balance                                        -                      226,252                   226,252 Increase use of fund balance
           TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
                    ADJUSTMENTS - GENERAL FUND $                 -     $                226,252 $                 226,252

Expenditures
Salaries & Wages                                                 -                       65,500                     65,500 City Prosecutor & Paralegals
Employee Benefits                                                -                       29,399                     29,399 City Prosecutor & Paralegals
Training                                                         -                        1,200                      1,200 City Prosecutor & Paralegals
Software                                                         -                        5,000                      5,000 City Prosecutor & Paralegals software
Prosecuting Attorney                                         225,000                    (30,000)                   195,000 Reduction in contracted prosecuting services
Christmas Decorations                                         10,000                     50,000                     60,000 Village Lighting
Transfer to CP                                             1,385,155                    (50,000)                 1,335,155 Reduced transfer to CP for Lighting
Building Inspection Contract                                  50,000                     40,000                     90,000 Third party inspection services
Transfer to LBA                                                  -                      201,150                    201,150 Debt sevice payment
Increase in Fund Balance                                      85,997                    (85,997)                       -   Decrease contribution to fund balance
       TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENDITURE BUDGET
                     ADJUSTMENTS - GENERAL FUND $          1,756,152 $                  226,252 $                1,982,404

Arts Fund
Revenues
Ticket Sales                                                  25,000                     15,000                     40,000 Community Theatre Ticket Sales
Individual Donations Arts Council                              2,000                     40,000                     42,000 Individual donation for Community Theater
            TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
                          ADJUSTMENTS - ARTS FUND $           27,000 $                   55,000 $                   82,000

Expenses
                                                                                                                           Adjustment for seasonals salaries Concert Producer
Salaries & Wages                                              64,919                         8,250                  73,169 and Event Coordinator
                                                                                                                           Adjustment for seasonals salaries Concert Producer
Employee Benefits                                             38,551                        750                     39,301 and Event Coordinator
Adm - Musical Licensing                                        3,100                      8,000                     11,100 Community theater event
Program - Supplies                                             1,150                     15,000                     16,150 Community theater event
Advertising / Public Relations                                10,650                      1,500                     12,150 Community theater event
Concessions / Refreshments                                       900                        500                      1,400 Community theater event
Individual Artist Payments                                    15,300                     10,500                     25,800 Community theater event
Facility Rental                                               15,000                      1,500                     16,500 Community theater event
Volunteer Appreciation                                         1,750                      1,000                      2,750 Community theater event
Professional Services                                         15,800                      4,000                     19,800 Community theater event
Contribution to Fund Balance                                     -                        4,000                        -   Contribution to fund balance
            TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENSE BUDGET
                            ADJUSTMENTS -ARTS FUND $        167,120 $                    55,000 $                 218,120

Grants Fund
Revenues
Energy Efficiency Grant                                     143,927                     (43,927)                  100,000 Correction to energy effciency grant City match
Transfer from Capital Projects                                  -                        43,927                    43,927 Correction to energy effciency grant City match
            TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
                        ADJUSTMENTS - GRANTS FUND $         143,927 $                          -     $            143,927

Capital Projects Fund
Revenues
Approp Fund Balance                                        7,466,496                     43,927                  7,510,423 Energy effeciency grant match
Transfer from General Fund                                 1,385,155                    (50,000)                 1,335,155 Village Lighting
            TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
            ADJUSTMENTS - CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND $          8,851,651 $                   (6,073) $               8,845,578

Expenditures
Lighting upgrades Village                                   100,000                     (50,000)                    50,000 Village Lighting
Transfer to Grants Fund                                         -                        43,927                     43,927 Energy effeciency grant match
      TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENDITURE BUDGET
          ADJUSTMENTS - CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND $             100,000 $                    (6,073) $                  93,927
                                             City of Holladay

                               COUNCIL STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE: March 5, 2026
SUBJECT: Resolution to Re-Adopt the Revised 2025 Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation
Plan
SUBMITTED BY: Allison Jester, Emergency Management Coordinator

ACTION: Adopt the finalized Updated Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation Plan and City of Holladay
Jurisdictional Annex

WHAT IS THE HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN:
The Hazard Mitigation Plan (HMP) is a comprehensive document that outlines our long-term strategy to
reduce damages and losses in a disaster. It identifies potential natural disasters, their risks, our
vulnerabilities and capabilities, and outlines future actions we plan to take to minimize their impact on
our city.

WHY WE NEED TO PASS ANOTHER RESOLUTION TO ADOPT:
In June 2025, a resolution was passed to adopt the 2025 Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation Plan and City
of Holladay Jurisdictional Annex. Since that time, the plan was sent for approval at the state and federal
level, and a few specific changes were made. Due to a mis-understanding in the required language in the
previous June 2025 resolution, a new resolution needs to be passed to adopt the revised plan.

The Hazard Mitigation Plan is required under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency
Assistance Act for local jurisdictions to be eligible for certain types of non-emergency disaster assistance
and hazard mitigation funding, including the Community Project Fund bill that Senator Curtis is
advocating for on behalf of Holladay.

WHAT CHANGED?
During the State and Federal review, a few City of Holladay action items were found to be extraneous or
not strictly related to mitigation. Additional revisions were made to increase clarity. The changes are as
follows:

    1.   Avalanche Hazard and Mitigation Removal (pg 48)
         During the planning process, a list of risks for the entire valley was identified and mitigation
         measures were included for all hazards. Mitigation measures for avalanches were removed
         because there is no measurable avalanche risk within Holladay.

    2.   Extreme Cold Mitigation Action Revision (pg 50)
         The original action was more of a response measure. It was revised to align with mitigation goals
         and now reads: “Hold a community preparedness workshop to educate residents on steps to
         promote personal safety in winter weather. Provide additional educational materials on social
         media and website.” Cold weather education continues in the Journal and on social media as
         appropriate.
    •   Lead Agency Clarification (pg 48 – 51)
        All mitigation measures now clearly identify a single lead agency, even when coordination with
        other agencies is required.

    •   Integration Mitigation Plan (pg 30 – 31)
        The annex was updated to show how future mitigation efforts and plans align.

ATTACHMENTS:
City of Holladay Jurisdictional Annex to Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation Plan – selected pages.
         1. Avalanche Hazard Mitigation Removal – Page 25
         2. Extreme Cold Revision & Lead Agency Clarification found in Mitigation Action Plan Table –
             Pages 44-47.
         3. Integration of Mitigation Plan – Pages 30-31

FULL PLANS:
The complete SLCo Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan Vol I and City of Holladay Jurisdictional
Annex will be provided in the Teams folder for reference.
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY


                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2026-07

       A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY ADOPTING
       THE 2026 SALT LAKE COUNTY HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN

       WHEREAS, the City of Holladay recognizes the threat that natural hazards pose to people
and property within the City of Holladay; and

        WHEREAS, the City of Holladay has participated in the creation of a multi-hazard
mitigation plan, hereby known as the 2026 Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation Plan in
accordance with the Disaster Mitigation Act of 2000; and

        WHEREAS, the 2026 Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation Plan identifies mitigation goals
and actions to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to people and property in (local community)
from the impacts of future hazards and disasters; and

        WHEREAS, adoption by the City of Holladay demonstrates their commitment to hazard
mitigation and achieving the goals outlined in the 2026 Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation
Plan;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

       Section 1. Adoption. For the protection of public health, safety and welfare, the City of
Holladay adopts the 2026 Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation Plan.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.

             PASSED AND APPROVED this __ day of March, 2026.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL


                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Paul Fotheringham, Mayor
                      SALT LAKE COUNTY MULTI -JURISDICTIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN



 Hazard            Vulnerable     Description of Vulnerability and Impacts
                   Asset
                   Community      4th of July, Blue Moon, marathons (private).
                   Activities


Hazards Not Profiled
The avalanche hazard has been omitted from further discussion of hazard impacts and from mitigation
actions. As noted in the hazard description in Volume 1, avalanches most frequently occur in the Wasatch
and Oquirrh Mountains in Salt Lake County. Terrain and snow accumulation conditions in and near the
city are not conducive to avalanches, and no structures are considered at risk. No previous occurrences
of avalanches have impacted Holladay.


Jurisdiction-Specific Changes in Vulnerability
Hazard events can impact communities, infrastructures, and ecosystems. The severity of these impacts
can be influenced by climate change, population patterns, and land use developments. Understanding
these factors is crucial for the city of Holladay to develop a resilient community and minimize the impacts
of hazards. Table 12 displays the unique changes within the community and the related effects of each
hazard on the city of Holladay.




City of Holladay                                                                                          25
SA L T L AK E C O U N T Y M U L TI -J U R IS DI CT I O NA L H A Z AR D M IT I GA T I ON P L AN




Additional Public Involvement
The city of Holladay provides several opportunities for public participation. Figure 1 displays examples of
outreach sharing the public survey. An announcement about the mitigation plan update and link to the
survey was also included in the City Journal mailer sent to city residents.




                 Figure 1: Email Blast Newsletter (left) and Flyer for the City of Holladay (right)



Plan Integration
Incorporating the underlying principles of the Hazard Mitigation Plan and its recommendations into other
plans is a highly effective and low-cost way to expand their influence. All plan participants will use existing
methods and programs to implement hazard mitigation actions where possible. As previously stated,
mitigation is most successful when it is incorporated into the day-to-day functions and priorities of
government and public service. This plan builds on the momentum developed through previous and
related planning efforts and mitigation programs, and it recommends implementing actions where
possible through these other program mechanisms. These existing mechanisms include the following:

     Regularity Capabilities

     Administrative Capabilities

     Fiscal Capabilities

Respective planning stakeholders will conduct implementation and incorporation into existing planning
mechanisms and will be done through the routine actions of:

     Monitoring other planning/program agendas

     Attending other planning/program meetings

     Participating in other planning processes; and

     Monitoring community budget meetings for other community program opportunities.

The successful implementation of this plan will require constant and vigilant review of existing plans and
programs for coordination and multi-objective opportunities that promote a safe, sustainable community.
Regular efforts should be made to monitor the progress of mitigation actions implemented through other


30                                                                                                    City of Holladay
                      SALT LAKE COUNTY MULTI -JURISDICTIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN



planning mechanisms. Where appropriate, priority actions should be incorporated into planning updates.
Table 9 lists existing planning mechanisms in which the Hazard Mitigation Plan has been integrated.

Table 9: Previous Plan Integration by the City of Holladay

 Plan                                               Description
 None                                 N/A

Table 10: Future Plan Integration Opportunities for the City of Holladay

 Plan                               Description
 General Plan                       The city is currently working to update its General Plan.
 Community Wildfire                 The CWPP will be updated in 2026. The updated Mitigation Plan and
 Protection Plan (CWPP)             associated mitigation actions will be referenced to inform current and
                                    future goals, capabilities, and gaps.
 Evacuation Plan                    An evacuation plan and map are under development. Hazard profiles
                                    and areas of concern from the Mitigation Plan will help inform areas
                                    of high risk in the evacuation plan.


Capability Assessment
Local mitigation capabilities are existing authorities, policies, programs, and resources that reduce hazard
impacts or could help carry out hazard mitigation activities.


Planning and Regulatory Capabilities
Planning and regulatory capabilities are the plans, policies, codes, and ordinances that prevent and
reduce the impacts of hazards.

Table 13: Assessment of the Planning Capabilities of the City of Holladay

 Plan                     Does it address      How can it be used to implement        When was the last
                          hazards? (Y/N)       mitigation actions?                    update? When is
                                                                                      the next update?
 General Plan             Y                    Help identify current and future       2016. Next update
                                               gaps in capabilities                   2025–2026
 Capital                  Y                    Identifies projects where mitigation   2024
 Improvement Plan                              actions can be implemented.
 Climate Change           Y                    Accounts for natural constraints       2016. Next update
 Adaptation Plan                               and hazards when considering city      2025–2026
                                               planning, growth, and goals.
 Community Wildfire       Y                    Informs area of concern for wildfire   2021, Next update
 Protection Plan                               and identifies gaps specific to        2025
                                               Wildland–Urban Interface areas.
 Economic                 N                    Unknown                                2016. Next update
 Development Plan                                                                     2025–2026



City of Holladay                                                                                          31
S AL T LA K E C O U NT Y M ULT I- JU R IS DI C T ION A L HA Z A RD M IT IG A TI O N P LA N


Table 22: 2025 Mitigation Action Plan for the City of Holladay 5

    #   Action                                   Hazard(s)             Lead Agency           Potential Partners   Benefits (Losses Avoided)                  Cost         Funding             Timeframe     Priority      Comments
                                                                                                                                                             Estimate     Source(s)

    1   Include parking offsets on the north     Civil Disturbance     City of Holladay                           Ensure safety for city staff and elected   Medium       Federal earmark     Medium        High          New element being explored for
        and south sides of City Hall as part                           Emergency                                  officials. Ensure continuity of                         funding, City       term                        the building upgrade and
        of the retrofit to prevent parking                             Management                                 government.                                             general fund                                    retrofit.
        near the building.
    2   Gather pertinent information on          Dam Failure           City of Holladay      Salt Lake City,      Provide information for future planning    Low          City general        Short term    High          Need more information to plan
        dams up Big Cottonwood Canyon,                                 Emergency             SLCo, UDNR           and mitigation.                                         fund                                            for possibilities in our
        including inundation mapping,                                  Management                                                                                                                                         jurisdiction. The city does not
        timing, water levels, and EAPs from                                                                                                                                                                               own or operate these dams.
        partners.
    3   Develop a five-year water                Drought               City of Holladay                           Plan for long-term environmental           Low          City general        Medium        Medium
        conservation plan and include it in                            Emergency                                  impacts.                                                fund                term
        the General Plan update.                                       Management
    4   Produce a drought map to inform          Drought               City of Holladay      City of Holladay     Educate residents to conserve water        Low          City general        Short term    Low
        residents of the drought status.                               CED                   GIS                  resources.                                              fund
                                                                       Department
    5   Update and retrofit City Hall to         Civil Disturbance     City of Holladay                           Ensure the safety of city staff and        High         Federal earmark     Medium        High          This is an ongoing project—the
        account for life safety in an            Earthquake            Emergency                                  elected officials and ensure continuity                 funding, BRIC,      term                        city has been working to secure
        earthquake and increase security                               Management                                 of government.                                          PDM, City                                       funding for several years. Plans
        for city staff and the Police                                                                                                                                     general fund                                    are currently underway.
        Department.                                                                                                                                                                                                       Construction is slated to begin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in 2026.
    6   Build a dedicated Emergency              Earthquake,           City of Holladay                           Coordinate efficient and effective         Medium       City general        Medium        High          Currently we do not have a
        Communications Center (ECC) with         Tornado, Extreme      Emergency                                  responses to reduce loss of life and                    fund, EOC grant     term                        dedicated space for an ECC,
        power and communications                 Weather,              Management                                 property.                                               program                                         which means setting it up during
        redundancy.                              Hazardous                                                                                                                                                                an incident. Post building
                                                 Materials Incident,                                                                                                                                                      update, there will be a
                                                 Wildfire                                                                                                                                                                 dedicated space.
    7   Create a handout to include in           Earthquake            City of Holladay                           Educate residents about URMs to            Low          City general        Short term    Medium        Large areas of Holladay are
        permit packets about buildings with                            CED                                        reduce loss of life and property                        fund                                            made up of URMs. Small and
        unreinforced masonry (URM)                                     Department                                 damage.                                                                                                 large retrofit projects can
        regarding risks and low-cost                                                                                                                                                                                      protect residents in an
        retrofits, such as strapping water                                                                                                                                                                                earthquake – many are not
        tanks and flexible pipes.                                                                                                                                                                                         aware of the risks.
    8   Participate in Code Blue and             Extreme Cold          City of Holladay      SLCo EM              Educate the public on actions they can     Low          City general        Short term    Low
        provide information and links to Salt                          Emergency                                  take during extreme cold events.                        fund
        Lake County warming centers and                                Management
        resources.
    9   Gather information and begin             Extreme Heat          City of Holladay                           Provide information for future planning    Low          City general        Medium        Medium        Tree canopy is a delicate
        comprehensive mapping of the tree                              CED                                        and mitigation. Share information on                    fund                term                        balance between water
        canopy (Cottonwoods), compare                                  Department                                 social media, website, or Holladay                                                                      conservation and conservation
        every five years to determine its                                                                         Journal annually to inform residents of                                                                 to reduce heat effect. More data
        status.                                                                                                   methods to reduce their risk of health                                                                  is needed to make informed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          decisions.

5
 BRIC = Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities, CED = Community and Economic Development, CERT = Community Emergency Response Team, CWPP = Community Wildfire Protection Plan, EAP = Emergency Action Plan, ECC = Emergency
Communications Center, EM = Emergency Management, EOC = Emergency Operations Center, FMA = Flood Mitigation Assistance, HMGP = Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, NFIP = National Flood Insurance Program, NWS = National Weather Service, PDM = Pre-
Disaster Mitigation, SIAC = Statewide Information and Analysis Center, SLCo = Salt Lake County, SLCo EM = Salt Lake County Emergency Management, UDNR = Utah Department of Natural Resources, UFA = Unified Fire Authority, UGS = Utah Geological Survey, UPD
= Unified Police Department, URM = Unreinforced Masonry, USFS = United States Forest Service, WUI = Wildland–Urban Interface.


44                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            City of Holladay
                                                                                                                                                             S AL T LA K E C O UN T Y M ULT I-JU R IS DI C T IONA L HA ZA RD M IT IG A T IO N P LA N



 #     Action                                  Hazard(s)            Lead Agency        Potential Partners   Benefits (Losses Avoided)                 Cost        Funding             Timeframe      Priority     Comments
                                                                                                                                                      Estimate    Source(s)
                                                                                                            impacts or damage to homes from
                                                                                                            extreme cold. Share
 10    Communicate heat warning                Extreme Heat         City of Holladay   The City Journal     Provide education to residents and        Low         City general        Short term     Low
       information and appropriate                                  Emergency                               vulnerable populations.                               fund
       responses to residents through                               Management
       social media, newsletters, and other
       outgoing information. (e.g.,
       encourage staying indoors, provide
       symptom reminders).
 11    Continue to comply with all             Flooding             City of Holladay                        Prevent property damage and loss of       Low         City general        Short term     Medium
       requirements of the NFIP.                                    CED                                     life.                                                 fund
                                                                    Department
 12    Identify risks of earthquake and        Flooding,            City of Holladay                        Provide information for future planning   Low         City general        Long term      Low          The city has many canals that
       canal flooding throughout the           Earthquake           CED                                     and mitigation.                                       fund, FMA if                                    follow along fault lines, which
       jurisdiction.                                                Department                                                                                    flood risk                                      could present flooding issues
                                                                                                                                                                  reducing                                        after an earthquake. More
                                                                                                                                                                  projects                                        information is needed to
                                                                                                                                                                  identified.                                     mitigate risks in the future.
 13    Train personnel on emergency            Hazardous            City of Holladay   UFA, UPD, Salt       Coordinate efficient and effective        Low         City general        Short term     High         A recent HAZMAT incident in
       plans and establish notification        Materials Incident   Emergency          Lake County          responses to reduce loss of life and                  fund                                            the city highlighted the need to
       procedures for emergency                                     Management                              property.                                                                                             establish clear procedures and
       personnel and city officials.                                                                                                                                                                              training for incident notification.
 14    Evaluate undeveloped properties for     Landslide/Slope      City of Holladay   UGS                  Prevent development in potentially        High        City general        Long term      Medium
       possible acquisition in areas of high   Failure              CED                                     dangerous areas.                                      fund
       risk (mostly along Wasatch Blvd.).                           Department
 15    Provide the public with information     Radon                City of Holladay                        Educate residents and vulnerable          Low         City general        Short term,    Medium
       about radon risk, mitigation, and                            CED                                     populations about radon risks and                     fund                ongoing
       funding programs on the city                                 Department,                             mitigation strategies. Use Happy
       website and at events.                                                                               Healthy Holladay program to share
                                                                                                            information.
 16    Promote regular tree trimming and       Severe Weather –     City of Holladay                        Educate residents about tree              Low         City general        Short term,    Low          There are numerous old trees in
       the “Right Tree in the Right Place”     High Wind,           CED                                     maintenance and the risks associated                  fund                ongoing                     the area, and specific issues
       program to residents. Educate the       Tornado              Department                              with pine trees.                                                                                      with aging pines.
       public on old trees and the risks
       associated with pine trees.
 17    Partner with NWS to address             Severe Weather –     City of Holladay   National Weather     Plan and coordinate efficient and         Low         City general        Short term     High
       lightning and severe weather during     Heavy Rain, High     Emergency          Service              effective responses to reduce loss of                 fund
       outdoor city-sponsored events.          Wind Tornado,        Management                              life and property.
                                               Lightning
 18    Continue to educate residents on        Severe Weather –     City of Holladay                        Provide education to residents on         Low         City general        Short term,    Low
       appropriate stormwater practices to     Heavy Rain, High     Public Services                         stormwater practices to prevent                       fund                ongoing
       keep gutters and canals clear of        Wind, Lightning      Department                              blockages and reduce flooding risks.
       debris.
 19    Create a plan to support assisted       Severe Winter        City of Holladay   Private partners,    Enhance future planning and response.     Low         City general        Short term     Low
       living facilities and areas of high     Weather – Heavy      Emergency          Health Care                                                                fund
       vulnerability during severe winter      Snow, Blizzard       Management         Coalition
       weather events.




City of Holladay                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    45
S AL T LA K E C O U NT Y M ULT I- JU R IS DI C T ION A L HA Z A RD M IT IG A TI O N P LA N



 #     Action                                    Hazard(s)             Lead Agency           Potential Partners   Benefits (Losses Avoided)                    Cost       Funding        Timeframe     Priority   Comments
                                                                                                                                                               Estimate   Source(s)

 20    Hold a community preparedness             Extreme Cold,         City of Holladay      Be Ready Utah        Educate residents to reduce risks,           Low        City general   Short term    Low
       workshop to educate residents on          Severe Winter         Emergency                                  injuries, or property damage from                       fund
       steps to promote personal safety in       Weather – Heavy       Management                                 hazards. Provide handouts and
       winter weather. Provide additional        Snow, Blizzard                                                   educational information on home
       educational materials on social                                                                            weatherization, warming centers, and
       media and website.                                                                                         tree trimming prior to an extreme cold
                                                                                                                  or severe winter weather event.
                                                                                                                  Workshops could be held annually or
                                                                                                                  bi-annually. Additional education on
                                                                                                                  winter weather mitigation can be
                                                                                                                  provided annually on city’s emergency
                                                                                                                  preparedness “Monthly Messages”
                                                                                                                  website, and via the Holladay Journal
                                                                                                                  newsletter.
 21    Participate in monitoring threats         Terrorism             City of Holladay      SLCo EM, UPD         Coordinate efficient and effective           Low        City general   Short term,   Low
       from the SIAC.                            (including            Emergency                                  responses to reduce loss of life and                    fund           Ongoing
                                                 Cyberattacks)         Management                                 property.
 22    Work with partner agencies to             Wildfire              City of Holladay      UFA                  Identify areas of higher wildfire risk and   Low        City general   Short term    Low
       update the CWPP.                                                Emergency                                  potential actions to reduce risk through                fund
                                                                       Management                                 planning and coordination.
 23    Distribute defensible space               Wildfire              City of Holladay      Unified Fire         Provide education and resources to           Low        City general   Short term    Low
       information for any redevelopment                               CED                   Authority, Forest    residents.                                              fund
       in the Cottonwoods and WUI areas.                               Department            Service
 24    Create an evacuation zone plan and        Wildfire,             City of Holladay      Unified Fire         Improve the safety of residents by           Low        City general   Short term    Medium
       annex.                                    Hazardous             Emergency             Authority, Unified   identifying potential problems and                      fund
                                                 Materials Incident    Management            Police Department,   facilitating smoother evacuation
                                                                                             Salt Lake County     through planning and coordination.
                                                                                             Emergency
                                                                                             Management
 25    Map hydrant locations and areas of        Wildfire              City of Holladay      UFA, Salt Lake       Enhance the safety of residents and          Low        City general   Short term    Medium
       low water pressure for internal                                 CED                   City, water          ensure the ability to protect structures                fund
       purposes.                                                       Department            agencies             through planning and coordination.
 26    Increase adult influenza vaccination      Epidemic/Pandem       SLCo Public           City of Holladay     Improve community immunity to                Low        City general   Short term    Medium
       rates to the Healthy Salt Lake target     ic                    Health                Emergency            influenza, reducing illness and potential               fund
       rate. Currently the rate is 70%.                                                      Management           death in Holladay.
 27    Develop an outreach program to            Earthquake            City of Holladay      UFA                  Reduce damage to unreinforced                Low        City general   Short term    Low
       encourage residents to strengthen                               Emergency                                  masonry structures during                               fund
       structures that are built of                                    Management                                 earthquakes.
       unreinforced masonry.
 28    Continue to encourage water               Drought               City of Holladay      Jordan Valley        Reduce water usage per household,            Low        City general   Short term    Medium
       conservation using Jordan Valley                                Emergency             Water Conservation   increasing the amount of water                          fund
       Water Conservation outreach                                     Management            District, SLCo       available to the city during droughts.
       material and information from Salt                                                    Public Utilities
       Lake City Department of Public
       Utilities and the State of Utah’s
       “Slow the Flow” program.
 29    Assess current communications and         Earthquake            City of Holladay      SLCo EM, UFA         Improve communication and                    Low        City general   Short term    Medium
       interoperable emergency/ warning                                Emergency                                  coordination among emergency                            fund
       systems.                                                        Management                                 response agencies during a disaster.



46                                                                                                                                                                                                                           City of Holladay
                                                                                                                                                            S AL T LA K E C O UN T Y M ULT I-JU R IS DI C T IONA L HA ZA RD M IT IG A T IO N P LA N



 #     Action                                  Hazard(s)          Lead Agency        Potential Partners   Benefits (Losses Avoided)                  Cost        Funding             Timeframe      Priority     Comments
                                                                                                                                                     Estimate    Source(s)

 30    Provide personal, CERT, and             Earthquake         City of Holladay   SLCo EM, UFA         Enable the city to tap into citizen CERT   Low         City general        Short term     Medium
       amateur radio training for the                             Emergency                               members to support disaster response                   fund
       citizens of the city.                                      Management                              and recovery.
 31    Continue participating in the           Flooding           City of Holladay   SLCo EM              Reduce losses from flooding through        Low         City general        Short term     High
       National Flood Insurance Program.                          Emergency                               enhanced flood ordinances, building                    fund
                                                                  Management                              codes, and flood insurance.
 32    Develop protocol for working with       Landslide          City of Holladay   Utah Emergency       Improve efficiency in coordination to      Low         City general        Short term     Medium
       State and Federal agencies in                              Emergency          Management,          provide support for those impacted by                  fund
       developing impact of post fire debris                      Management         FEMA                 post-fire debris flow.
       flow hazard.
 33    Create outreach materials on            Severe weather     City of Holladay   SLCo Aging           Ensure that the aging population knows     Low         City general        Short term     Medium
       actions to take when severe                                Emergency          Services             how to remain safe during severe                       fund
       weather strikes and include this                           Management                              weather by targeting media they utilize.
       information in citywide newspapers
       and phone books targeted at the
       55+ age group, developed by
       County Aging Services.
 34    Facilitate public awareness through     Wildland Fire      City of Holladay   UFA, CED             Encourage local governments to work        Low         City general        Short term     High
       “Fire Wise” programs.                                      Emergency                               with residents to prepare for wildfire                 fund
                                                                  Management                              and mitigate potential damage.
 35    Create defensible space.                Wildland Fire      City of Holladay   UFA, CED             Reduce the intensity and chances of        Medium      Paid for by         Medium         High
                                                                  Emergency                               catastrophic wildland fire.                            those               term
                                                                  Management                                                                                     developing
                                                                                                                                                                 homes
 36    Continue to support and take part in    Earthquake         City of Holladay   Utah Division of     Prepare citizens to protect themselves     Low         City general        Short term     Medium
       annual Utah Shakeout exercises to                          Emergency          Emergency            during a disaster.                                     fund
       promote earthquake awareness.                              Management         Management
 37    Continue to enforce building codes      Earthquake,        City of Holladay   SLCo Emergency       Reduce the likelihood of buildings to      Low         City general        Short term     High
       and develop new codes and zoning        Flooding           Emergency          Management           sustain damage during an earthquake.                   fund
       ordinances as needed or when state                         Management
       codes are updated.
 38    Continue to execute training and        Earthquake,        City of Holladay   SLCo Emergency       Improve communication and                  Low         City general        Short term     Medium
       exercise programs.                      Wildfire, Severe   Emergency          Management           coordination between emergency                         fund
                                               Weather            Management                              response partners.
 39    Educate residents and businesses        Earthquake         City of Holladay   SLCo Emergency       Support citizens through providing         Low         City general        Short term     Low
       through public information and                             Emergency          Management           emergency preparedness outreach in                     fund
       events.                                                    Management                              the form of journal articles, social
                                                                                                          media, community courses, and other
                                                                                                          events.
 40    Collaborate with partners to            Dam Failure        Salt Lake City     SLCo EM, Holladay    Reinforce the dam structure, including     High        Salt Lake City      Short term     High
       rehabilitate Lake Mary-Phoebe dam                          Corporation        EM, Utah Division    addressing spalling and deterioration                  General Fund,
       structure. Address spillway capacity                                          of Water Rights      as indicated in dam inspection reports                 SLCo General
       and seepage control measures.                                                 Dam Safety, Salt     to reduce the risk of failure.                         Fund, HHPD
                                                                                     Lake City Public                                                            Grant, HMGP,
                                                                                     Utilities                                                                   Utah Bureau of
                                                                                                                                                                 Water
                                                                                                                                                                 Resources
                                                                                                                                                                 revolving fund



City of Holladay                                                                                                                                                                                                                                47
                                        CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                      RESOLUTION NO. 2026-

         A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY APPROVING
         THE INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY FOR USE OF THE
         HOLLADAY SKATE PARK.

       WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay has reviewed a proposal from Salt Lake
County for the use of the Holladay Skate Park for structured recreation programs; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay desires to enter into the interlocal
agreement with Salt Lake County to provide for the recreational opportunities for residents of the
County and residents of the City of Holladay;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

       Section 1.      Approval. That certain Interlocal Agreement between Salt Lake County
and the City of Holladay is hereby approved. The Mayor of the City of Holladay is hereby
authorized to sign the Agreement for and in behalf of the City.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.

             PASSED AND APPROVED this         day of March, 2026.
                                                  HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL


                                                   By: ____________________________________
                                                        Paul Fotheringham, Mayor


[SEAL]                                             VOTING:
                                                   David Sundwall             Yea        Nay ___
                                                   Matt Durham                Yea        Nay ___
                                                   Natalie Bradley            Yea        Nay ___
                                                   Drew Quinn                 Yea        Nay ___
                                                   Emily Gray                 Yea        Nay ___
                                                   Paul Fotheringham          Yea        Nay ___
ATTEST:
                              A FACILITIES USE AGREEMENT

       This Facilities Use Agreement (the “Agreement”) is entered into by and between CITY
OF HOLLADAY, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (“City”) and SALT LAKE
COUNTY, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah (“County”). City and County may
each be referred to herein as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties.”

                                           RECITALS

       WHEREAS, the City of Holladay owns the Holladay Skate Park (“Skate Park”) which is
adjacent to the Holladay City Park at 4580 S. 2300 E. Holladay, UT 84117; and

       WHEREAS, Salt Lake County has expressed a desire to use the Skate Park to run a skate
boarding clinic once a week for a period of 7 weeks and the City believes that allowing the
County to use the Skate Park will serve the public interest; and

       WHEREAS, the parties desire to commit their understandings, which are supported by
the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, to writing;

                                          AGREEMENT

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:


Section 1.
       1.1 During the term herein set forth, and subject to the conditions and restrictions
           described in this Agreement, the City hereby agrees to permit the county, on a non-
           exclusive basis, to utilize the Skate Park and related facilities located at 4580 S. 2300
           E. Holladay, UT 84117, on the dates and times as follows:

           o Aug 29, Sept 5, 12, 19, 26, Oct 3. 8:30am-11:30am.


Section 2.      Consideration. As consideration for the use of the Skate Park, the County hereby
agrees to provide all administration and supervision for the clinics. In addition to administration
and supervision, the County shall pay to the City the sum of $0.00 which together with
administration and supervision shall constitute full and fair consideration for the use of the City’s
Skate Park during the term of this Agreement. In addition, the County hereby agrees to provide
to the City the name of a County representative to serve as contact with the City regarding the
County’s use of the facility during the term of this Agreement.

Section 3.     Maintenance. The parties hereby acknowledge that the real property comprising
the Skate Park together with the improvements and fixtures attached thereto are owned by the
City. The County will not modify the facilities in any way. All equipment or items to be utilized



                                                 1
in the clinic by the County or by clinic participants shall be furnished by the participants or the
County.

Section 4.      Supervision and Regulations. All persons utilizing the Skate Park shall, at the
time specified in this Agreement, be supervised by County personnel who shall be responsible
adults designated by the County and identified upon request to the City’s personnel. The
designated responsible adult shall be a County employee or a person approved specifically by the
City. The County and all persons responsible for providing supervision shall obey any reasonable
instructions or directions of personnel of the City and shall comply with applicable rules and
regulations of the City. All employees, supervisors, and representatives of the County shall
adhere to appropriate safety and legal requirements in operating the clinic and the use of the
Skate Park.

Section 5.     Insurance and Indemnification. The County is self-insured. The parties hereby
agree that they are each public entities and subject to the provisions, restrictions, and protections
of the Utah Governmental Immunity Act. Nothing herein is intended to waive or alter either
parties’ immunity pursuant to the terms of such Act. The Parties agree that each party is
responsible for any wrongful or negligent acts which it commits or which are committed by its
authorized agents, officials, or employees, and neither party shall have liability whatsoever for
any wrongful or negligent act of the other, its agents, officials, or employees.

Section 6.      Term and Termination. The date the last party to sign this Agreement (as indicated by the
date accompanying that Party’s signature) is the Effective Date of this Agreement. This Agreement shall
terminate April 1, 2027, unless terminated sooner as provided in this Agreement. Either party may
terminate this Agreement upon giving 30 days’ notice to the other party. The Parties may amend this
Agreement on or before April 1, 2027 to add the session details for 2027, or execute a new agreement for
2027.

Section 7.     Amendment and Assignment. No amendment or modification of this Agreement
shall be of any force or effect unless set forth in writing and signed by the parties thereto. The
County shall not assign, rent, trade or transfer any rights under this Agreement.

Section 8.     Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
parties and incorporates all prior correspondence, communications or agreements between
parties, and cannot be altered, assigned or sublet, in whole or in part, except in writing signed by
both parties.




                                                    2
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Party hereby signs this Agreement on the date written
by each Party on the signature pages attached hereto.



ATTEST:                                            CITY OF HOLLADAY
                                                   a Utah municipal corporation


Signature:                                         Signature:
Stephanie Carlson, City Recorder                   Paul Fotheringham, Mayor

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Signature:
City Attorney




                                                   SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                   a body corporate and politic of the State of
                                                   Utah


                                                   Signature:
                                                   Jennifer Wilson, Mayor (or designee)

Reviewed as to form and legality for County:

Signature:
County Attorney


Division Review


Signature: _________________________________
Division Director, Parks and Recreation




                                               3
                                        City of Holladay
                                    HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL


                              COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE: March 5, 2026
SUBJECT: NIMS / ICS / ECC Training
SUBMITTED BY: Allison Jester, Emergency Management Coordinator

ACTION: Introduce the National Incident Management System (NIMS), Incident Command System (ICS),
Emergency Coordination Center (ECC), and City Council Roles during Incidents. This training provides a
high-level overview of how the City organizes and coordinates emergency response and how elected
officials fit into that structure.

National Incident Management (NIMS):
NIMS is a comprehensive, national approach to incident management that applies at all jurisdictional
levels and across functional disciplines. Federal policy requires its adoption to provide a common
structure and language, so agencies can coordinate effectively during an incident. The framework uses
ICS for on-scene command, the ECC to support operations, and a Multi-agency Coordination (MAC)
Group to provide policy-level guidance.

Incident Command System (ICS):
The Incident Command System (ICS) is a standardized approach to incident management that enables a
coordinated response to incidents of any size. It is the structure first responders use to organize
personnel, manage resources, establish priorities, and communicate effectively during an emergency.

Emergency Coordination Center (ECC):
An Emergency Coordination Center is a physical, virtual, or hybrid location which acts as a central
coordination point to support Incident Command. The ECC facilitates situational awareness, information
sharing, resource coordination, and policy support between on-scene incident command, partner
agencies, and government. It exists to ensure that operational response, organizational coordination,
and policy decisions remain aligned throughout an emergency.

CITY COUNCIL ROLES:
The City Council acts as a policy group that establishes direction and community priorities while
approving extraordinary expenditures, supporting unified public messaging, and enhancing political
goodwill. We will discuss the specifics of City Council Member roles during an incident and all Council
Members will be given a “Policy Group Emergency Guide” for reference.

FUTURE TRAINING:
A future coordination tabletop exercise will provide an opportunity to practice emergency coordination
in a discussion-based disaster scenario. The exercise will help clarify roles and responsibilities and
demonstrate how Incident Command, the ECC, and the Policy Group work together to support decision-
making and response operations.

ATTACHMENTS:
Policy Group Emergency Guide
NIMS / ICS / ECC Training Slides
ECC Organization Chart
ECC Activation Framework
                                                               2/25/2026




     NIMS / ICS / ECC

                                                  March 2026




1




    TRAINING PLAN
     01   National Incident Management System


     02   Incident Command System



     03   Emergency Coordination Center & Roles


     04   Coordination Tabletop




2



                                                                      1
                                                                                                                 2/25/2026




          NIMS OVERVIEW
                    WHAT
                    Scalable, flexible, standardized approach to managing incidents
                    Provides shared vocabulary and operational systems/processes


                    WHY
                    Integrates best practices and allows everyone to work together more effectively


                    WHEN
                    All incidents - regardless of size, location, complexity, planned or unplanned


                    WHO
                    All levels of Government
                    Private Sector
                    Non-governmental Organizations



3




    NIMS GUIDING PRINCIPLES

         FLEXIBILITY                    STANDARDIZATION                        UNITY OF EFFORT
        NIMS components are                   Supports interoperability          Coordinates activities among
     adaptable to any type of event         among multiple organizations        organizational representatives
              or incident.                        in a response.                to achieve common objectives.


                                               Standard Organizational
        All Hazards, geography,                                                   Maintains authority and
                                                     Structures
      climate, and demographics                                                       accountability

                                                   Best Practices
      Used for planned, forecast,                                                     Unified Command
        and no-notice events
                                               Common Terminology




4



                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                    2/25/2026




    NATIONAL RESPONSE FRAMEWORK
                                       Federal Government - Last
                                                Resort

                                      State Government - Provides
                                                Support
                                              MISSION


                              Local Government - First Response


                     Individuals                   Private             Organizations
                                                   Sector

5




    NIMS COMPONENETS

     RESOURCE                             COMMAND &                    COMMUNICATIONS
    MANAGEMENT                           COORDINATION                    & INFO MGMT



    Identify Resource Requirements             Leadership Roles            Systems to disseminate
                                                                                 Information
       Order, Acquire, Track,                     Processes                           to
    Demobilize, Restock, Reimburse                                           Incident Personnel
                                           Organizational Structures         & Decision Makers
    Personnel, Equipment, Supplies,              & Interaction
               Facilities



6



                                                                                                           3
                                                                              2/25/2026




      COMMAND
           AUTHORITY
           In NIMS, command is delegated to the on-scene Incident Commander
           (IC) by the Executive/Senior Official.


           EXAMPLES OF COMMAND ACTIVITIES
               • Determining Incident Priorities
               • Establishing Operational Periods
               • Assigning and supervising field resources


           TYPES OF COMMAND
               • Single Incident Command
               • Unified Command
               • Area Command


7




    TYPES OF COMMAND
    SINGLE INCIDENT COMMAND




8



                                                                                     4
                        2/25/2026




     TYPES OF COMMAND
     UNIFIED COMMAND




9




     TYPES OF COMMAND
     AREA
     COMMAND




10



                               5
                                                                                                                                   2/25/2026




        COORDINATION
                 Allows all levels of government and disciplines to work
                 together more efficiently and effectively.



                 EXAMPLES OF COORDINATION ACTIVITIES
                      • Adjusting agency budgets, policies, priorities to make funds and resources
                        available
                      • Facilitating Intra-agency decision making
                      • Coordinating public information
                      • Dispatching additional resources




11




     NIMS STRUCTURES & CONNECTIVITY
                                                                                                       Multi-Agency
       Incident Command                     Emergency Coordination
                                                                                                    Coordination Group
           System (ICS)                          Center (ECC)
                                                                                                       (MAC Group)




      On-scene management of                       Offsite Emergency                              Offsite support through policy
             incidents.                       Coordination Centers support                        guidance and scarce resource
                                                on-scene ICS operations.                                    allocation.


                                             Joint Information System (JIS)
                       Integrates incident information and public affairs across ICS, EOCs, and MAC Groups




12



                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                          2/25/2026




     MAC GROUPS
     Includes agency administrators, executives, or their designees from
     stakeholder agencies or organizations impacted by and with
     resources committed to the incident. In larger incidents this may
     include multiple stakeholder agencies as well as representatives from
     non-governmental organizations.



     ROLES & ACTIVITIES
        • Assist in identifying incident priorities at a high strategic level
        • Provide policy support
        • Support resource allocation and prioritization
        • Make cooperative multi-agency decisions




13




         SENIOR OFFICIAL ROLE
         The senior official has the authority to make decisions, commit resources, obligate funds, and
         command the resources necessary to protect the population.
         The senior official does not assume a command role on-scene.



         ACTIVITIES
            • Provides policy guidance on priorities and objectives based on situational
              needs and the CEMP.
            • Oversees resource coordination and support to on-scene command.
            • Provides delegation of authority to the IC or Unified Command to manage
              on-scene tactical operations.




         Who is our Senior Official?

14



                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                     2/25/2026




       CITY COUNCIL ROLES
        • Ensure continuity of local government
        • Support response and recovery
        • Establish financial directives and spending parameters, including the
         authorization of emergency projects or exigent spending
        • Participate in emergency policy decision-making such as the
         adjudication of scarce resources or changes to city policy
        • Coordinate with neighboring senior officials and governmental partners
        • Support the PIO by interfacing with citizens and media to circulate a
         clear, calm, unified message.
        • Visit impacted areas and shelters as appropriate.




15




     POLICY GROUP EMERGENCY GUIDE

          RESPONSIBILITIES                           PROCESSES




                                                City Manager or EM will send
              Situational Awareness              notification, updates, and
                                                        instructions
                   Be Available
                                              Meet at City Hall or Fire Station if
         Be responsible with information,       no notification can be sent
                 visable & calm
                                             Policy Briefing time and frequency
        Coordinate with City Manager, PIO,    will be designated by situation -
                       ECC                       may be virtual or in-person



16



                                                                                            8
                                                                                                                                   2/25/2026




     NIMS STRUCTURES & CONNECTIVITY
                                                                                                       Multi-Agency
       Incident Command                     Emergency Coordination
                                                                                                    Coordination Group
           System (ICS)                          Center (ECC)
                                                                                                       (MAC Group)




      On-scene management of                       Offsite Emergency                              Offsite support through policy
             incidents.                       Coordination Centers support                        guidance and scarce resource
                                                on-scene ICS operations.                                    allocation.


                                             Joint Information System (JIS)
                       Integrates incident information and public affairs across ICS, EOCs, and MAC Groups




17




        ICS OVERVIEW
             WHAT
                • All hazard management system
                • Scalable to fit the needs of all incidents
                • Standard for Emergency Management across the county



             HISTORY
                • Developed in the 1970s
                • Response problems resulted from:
                   ⚬ Lack of accountability
                   ⚬ Unclear chain of command
                   ⚬ Lack of orderly planning
                   ⚬ Inefficient delegation of workloads




18



                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                               2/25/2026




     MANAGEMENT BY PRIORITIES & OBJECTIVES


              PRIORITIES                     OBJECTIVES



                                            IC establishes measurable
                   Life safety          objectives based on MAC guidance

              Incident Stablization     Objectives help identify strategies,
                                            plans, activities, and tasks
               Protecting Property
                                            Assignments, plans, and
           Environmental Conservation   procedures are issued to achieve
                                                 the objectives



19




                    ICS STRUCTURE




20



                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                2/25/2026




     ICS COMMAND STAFF
     ROLES




21




     ICS GENERAL STAFF
     ROLES


           1.Manage information to         1.Order, obtain, maintain, and        1.Timekeeping
            maintaining situational          account for personnel,              2.Cost analysis
            awareness                        equipment, and supplies             3.Compensation for injury or
           2.Track resources assigned to   2.Provide communication                damage to property
            the incident                     planning and resources              4.Documentation for
           3.Maintain incident             3.Set up facilities, food services,    reimbursement (e.g., under
            documentation                    transportation, medical              mutual aid agreements and
           4.Develop plans for               services, etc. for incident
                                                                                  assistance agreements)
            demobilization                   personnel




22



                                                                                                                      11
                                                                                                                                       2/25/2026




     NIMS STRUCTURES & CONNECTIVITY
                                                                                                           Multi-Agency
        Incident Command                        Emergency Coordination
                                                                                                        Coordination Group
            System (ICS)                             Center (ECC)
                                                                                                           (MAC Group)




        On-scene management of                         Offsite Emergency                              Offsite support through policy
               incidents.                         Coordination Centers support                        guidance and scarce resource
                                                    on-scene ICS operations.                                    allocation.


                                                 Joint Information System (JIS)
                           Integrates incident information and public affairs across ICS, EOCs, and MAC Groups




23




     ECC OVERVIEW
      WHAT
      Physical or virtual locations where staff, stakeholders, and partners
      provide support for an incident.



      ACTIVITIES
         • Collect, share, disseminate information
         • Support resource needs and requests
         • Coordinate plans and determine current and future requirements
         • Liaise with partners
         • Support public communications


      ***In some cases ECCs may provide on-scene coordination or
      manage some operations such as sheltering or points of distribution.



24



                                                                                                                                             12
                                                                             2/25/2026




         GUIDING THE ECC
              City Manager
                     • Activates EM / ECC
                     • Delegates appropriate authority to ECC Director
                     • Disaster Declarations


              Executive Group
                     • Helps determine staffing and reporting requirements


              Policy Group
                     • Issues policy statement and guide for ECC
                     • Provides high-level priorities for the incident
                     • Provides exigent funding
                     • Assists in deconfliction of resources



25
     ECC STRUCTURE




26



                                                                                   13
                                                                                           2/25/2026




     SECTION ROLES




27




          ECC ACTIVATION
              What can “activation” look like?
                     • Everyone physically in the ECC
                     • Virtual ECC
                     • Hybrid Approach


              Consider Activation Based Upon:
                     • Event type
                     • Event scope
                     • Event length (or expected length)
                     • Number of people affected
                     • Possible cascading effects and escalation
                     • Need for coordination, communication, documentation, and resource
                      deconfliction.



28



                                                                                                 14
                                                                                                                                                2/25/2026




                         LOCATIONS
                             1.City Hall - ECC
     ECC BASICS

                             2.Fire Station #104 - Community Room
                             3. Virutal - Microsoft Teams



                         TOOLS
                             • ECC Emergency Binder
                             • Job Checklists for all positions




                         COMMUNICATIONS
                             • Internet & Phone
                             • Radios - 800, HAM, GMRS
                             • Starlink - Backup Data




29




       NIMS STRUCTURES & CONNECTIVITY
                                                                                                                    Multi-Agency
                  Incident Command                       Emergency Coordination
                                                                                                                 Coordination Group
                      System (ICS)                            Center (ECC)
                                                                                                                    (MAC Group)




                  On-scene management of                        Offsite Emergency                              Offsite support through policy
                         incidents.                        Coordination Centers support                        guidance and scarce resource
                                                             on-scene ICS operations.                                    allocation.


                                                          Joint Information System (JIS)
                                    Integrates incident information and public affairs across ICS, EOCs, and MAC Groups




30



                                                                                                                                                      15
                  2/25/2026




     QUESTIONS?


31




                        16
Responsibilities                                    Initial Actions

The function of the Policy Group is to set policy   •   Communicate with the City Manager, EM,
and approve divergence from normal city                 and PIO as necessary.
policies such as purchasing, procurement, and
                                                    •   Identify if/when the policy group will be
other community level decisions affecting
                                                        meeting in coordination with the City
citizens.
                                                        Manager or EM.
Emergency Actions:
                                                    •   Begin a log of actions (contacts, directives,
•   Maintain situational awareness.                     decisions)
•   Remain available and attend meetings.           •   Take note of interactions with citizens
•   Ensure continuity of local government               and community concerns.
    functions.                                      •   Assess if the ECC has been activated.
•   Understand incident objectives in order to
    support response and recovery.
•   Determine the need to suspend or enact          When & Where to Report

    new policies.                                   •   The City Manager or EM will send
•   Determine appropriate emergency                     notification and instruction asap.
    response expenditures and limits.               •   If notification is unable to be sent, the
•   When safe and appropriate, visit impacted           ECC will be the designated primary site of
    areas and shelters.                                 city coordination.
•   Be visible, calm, and responsible with          •   Policy Group meeting time and frequency
    information.                                        is designated by situation.
•   Coordinate with the PIO and ECC to ensure       •   Generally, if the ECC is activated, the
    communication with constituents is clear,           Policy Group will meet daily at that
    appropriate, and unified.                           location. The ECC may be virtual and
                                                        phone conferencing utilized.
Contacts & Information                               Public Interactions & Information

City Manager: Gina Chamness 801-699-0286             •   Communicate to the public the nature of the
                                                         event, status of community response, and
Assistant City Manager: Holly Smith 801-712-7824
                                                         what individuals should do.
EM Coordinator: Allison Jester 970-497-0444          •   Coordinate ALL public messaging with the
                                                         Public Information Officer (PIO) to ensure you
PIO: Lina Costa 801-913-7414
                                                         have the latest information.
Lines of Communication: E-mail, text, in-person      •   Direct media inquiries to the PIO.
                                                     •   Direct citizens to social media and website for
ECC Location: City Hall OR Fire Station
                                                         further information.




Information to Gather                                NIMS Training for Officials

•   Situation Status                                 •   ONLINE @ https://training.fema.gov/is/
    o   Impacts on citizens, hospitals, first            o   IS-100 Introduction to Incident Command
        responders, supply chain, critical                   Systems (ICS-100)

        infrastructure, local government                 o   IS-700 An Introduction to the National
                                                             Incident Management System
•   Current Response Actions
    o   Protections, notification status, resource
        shortfalls, outside assistance
•   ECC Status, location, level of activation
                                                             City of Holladay
                                                          Emergency Coordination
                                                            Organization Chart


                                                       Incident Command / Unified Command
                                                                                 On-Scene




                                                                                               Executive / MAC Group
                                                   ECC Director                                      City Manager
                                                 Emergency Manager                              Assigned Dept. Directors
                                                                                              UPD Chief & UFA Fire Captain
                                                                                                                                                          Legal Council


                               Safety Officer

                                                                                 PIO / JIC                      Policy Group
                                                                              Comms Manager                   Mayor / City Council
                              Liaison Officer
                            Econ Dev & Housing
                                 Manager




                   Operations / Situational                                                                                   Finance / Administration Support
                                                      Planning Support Section              Logistics Support Section
                  Awareness Support Section                                                                                               Section
                                                         CED / GIS / Planning                    Public Services
                           Admin                                                                                                    Finance Department




                                                 Possible branches and positions - to be filled as necessary
      Fire
                         Situational                       Documentation                       Resource Request &                      Time Tracking
Law Enforcement      Awareness & Hazard                                                             Tracking
                          Analysis
 Public Works                                             Situation Reports                      Facility Support                    Procurememt & Cost
                      Community Lifelines                                                                                                Accounting
                           Unit
    Utilities

                          Volunteer                           IT / GIS                           Communications                            Grants
 Transportation          Coordination


  Mass Care                                                  Intelligence                                                                  Claims
                        Media Analysis


                                                            Recovery /
                      CERT / VOAD/ FBO                     Demobilization
ECC Activation Decision Map
                                            City of Holladay


                               COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE: March 5, 2026
SUBJECT: Business License Fee Study
SUBMITTED BY: Ann Frances Garcia, Economic & Housing Manager

ACTION:
 A business license study has been conducted to make this determination and assist in establishing a new
fee schedule based upon the actual costs to the City.

SUMMARY:
Business license fee studies analyze the direct and indirect costs of issuing licenses and regulating
businesses to ensure fees accurately reflect the cost of services provided, often adjusting for
disproportionate impacts on our city’s resources. These reports typically review employee time,
administrative expenses, and fee structures (ie. Base fee plus employee count) to recommend necessary
fee schedule adjustments.

This study calculates the maximum business license fees allowable in Holladay under current State law.
Generally, fees for service are targeted to full cost recovery, inclusive of operating, direct, indirect, and
capital costs, except in cases where the City Council cites a public interest to lower fees. The City Council
may choose a fee lower than the maximum fee. If less than the maximum allowable fees are charged, the
difference between the fee and the cost to the City will be covered through other revenue sources.

BACKGROUND:
In January 2025, LRB Public Finance Advisors was retained by the City of Holladay to complete analysis
of business licensing costs to meet the requirements of Utah law as established by Utah Code Annotated
§10-1-203.

On November 6, 2025, the City Council received a report and presentation, during the work session, on
the Business License Fee Study. The report and presentation focused on the purpose of the study, process,
methodology, and policy considerations. Our consultant, LRB, was tasked to follow up with various
scenarios based on the feedback received.

On February 5, 2026, LRB presented during City Council Work Session, responses to the questions and
requested scenarios. City Council requested to see our current fees to show on a separate column to see a
comparison of current fee and proposed fee: (see Table 1)
                                          City of Holladay

TABLE 1:




It was also requested to see how the Disproportionate Fees would look with an adjustment ranging from
25% to 40% depending on the direct impact on services: (see Table 2)
                                            City of Holladay

TABLE 2:




RECOMMENDATION:
Staff and city consultant presentations are provided to update the city council’s previous direction and
gain input on final assumptions of potential fee increases. Staff is prepared to move forward with the
Public Hearing process, noticing and education for the business community, as soon as city council
provides direction.

ATTACHMENTS:
  • LRB – Business License Cost of Service Study “Preferred” Presentation

FISCAL IMPACT: ?

SUGGESTED MOTION: Continue to Work session
                                                                                                     2/27/2026




    HOLLADAY CITY
    BUSINESS LICENSE COST OF SERVICE STUDY

    FEBRUARY 2026




1




    PURPOSE
     UCA 10-1-203:
         The legislative body of a municipality may license for the purpose of regulation any
         business within the limits of the municipality, may regulate that business by ordinance,
         and may impose fees on businesses to recover the municipality's costs of regulation.

         The legislative body of a municipality may by ordinance raise revenue by levying and
         collecting a license fee or tax on:
          o   a business that causes disproportionate costs of municipal services; or
          o   a purchaser from a business for which the municipality provides an enhanced level of
              municipal services.


         Required to adopt an ordinance defining for purposes of the fee
         including:
          o   The basic level of municipal services; and
          o   The costs of providing an enhanced level of municipal services in the municipality.


         The fee shall be reasonably related to the costs of providing an
         enhanced level of the municipal services.
     2



2




                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                        2/27/2026




    LIMITATIONS
    UCA 10-1-203:
        A municipality may not:
         o require a license or permit for a business that is operated:
             o only occasionally; and

             o by an individual who is under 18 years old;



        Charge any fee for a resident of the municipality to operate a home-based business,
        unless the combined offsite impact of the home-based business and the primary
        residential use materially exceeds the offsite impact of the primary residential use alone;

        Require, as a condition of obtaining or maintaining a license or permit for a business:
         o That an employee or agent of a business complete education, continuing education,
           or training that is in addition to requirements under state law or state licensing
           requirements; or
         o That a business disclose financial information, inventory amounts, or proprietary
           business information, except as specifically authorized under state or federal law.

        Notwithstanding Subsection (7)(b), a municipality may charge an administrative fee for a
        license to a home-based business owner who is otherwise exempt under Subsection
        (7)(b) but who requests a license from the municipality.
    3



3




    PROCESS
                                                              Fee Analysis



                       Task 1: Cost Analysis                                         Task 2: Process Analysis



                       Base Employee Cost                                     Coordination with Staff Regarding Tasks



                    Department Overhead Cost                                       Create/Update Process Maps



                   Administrative Overhead Cost                                       Join with Cost Analysis



        Disproportionate Service Costs (Business Licensing)



                                                              Establish Fee




    4



4




                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                    2/27/2026




    COST ANALYSIS
        Analysis of current and projected budgets to
        determine base costs, department overhead, and
        administrative overhead costs:

         Base costs include employee salaries and benefits


         Department overhead costs include general costs to
             operate each department

         Administrative overhead costs include the cost of the
             services provided to all departments (i.e. legislative,
             executive and administrative costs)

    5



5




    PROCESS ANALYSIS
        Creation of Process Maps: General Business License Fee Example
    STEP #                  ACTION             HOURS                 PERSONNEL INVOLVED

        1      Application Review               0.25   Business License Official
        2      Fee Calculation                  0.10   Business License Official
        3      Verify DBA                       0.50   Business License Official
        4      Verify Sales Tax ID Number       0.33   Business License Official
                                                       UPD, UFA, Community & Economic Development
        5      Assign for Staff review          0.25
                                                       Director
        6      UPD Approval                     0.15   UPD
        7      UFA Approval                     0.25   UFA
        8      CED Approval                     0.15   Community & Economic Development Director
        9      Approval from Departments        0.25   Business License Official
        10     License Finalization/Printing    0.25   Business License Official

               TOTAL                            2.48




    6



6




                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                            2/27/2026




    PROCESS ANALYSIS
        Proposed Base Fees
                                                     PROPOSED LICENSE                                      PROPOSED TOTAL
                                                                                     DISP. FEE                                          CURRENT FEE
                                                         BASE FEE                                               FEE
    Home Occupation Daycare                                       $369.00                      $0.00                  $369.00                    $200.00
    Home Occupation NRU                                                                          No Change
    Home Occupation Regulated                                     $652.00                      $0.00                  $652.00                     $75.00
    General Business License                                      $298.00                                             $298.00                    $225.00
    General Renewal                                                $87.00                                               $87.00                        NA
    Beer License                                                  $318.00                   $408.00                   $726.00                    $383.00
    Restaurant w/alcohol                                          $318.00                   $408.00                   $726.00                 $1,100.00
    Restaurant w/o alcohol                                        $318.00                   $182.50                   $500.50                    $700.00
    Food Truck                                                    $318.00                      $0.00                  $318.00                    $225.00
    Short Term Rental / CUP                                       $472.00                      $0.00                  $472.00                    $250.00
    Rental Dwelling                                                                              No Change
    Solicitor                                                     $508.00                      $0.00                  $508.00                    $275.00
                                                                                                                                          $200.00 base
    Assisted Living/Nursing, Residential,                                                                   $330.00 Base +
                                                                  $330.00                   $299.60                                         $44.00 per
    and Personal Care                                                                                      $299.60 per bed
                                                                                                                                              resident
    Massage                                                       $373.00                      $0.00                  $373.00                         N/A

          Note: Current fee schedule has several categories for restaurant, alcohol, beer, etc. The schedule above simplifies these into three main
          categories: beer license, restaurant w/ alcohol, and Restaurant w/o alcohol and thus several fees currently assessed are not displayed.
    7



7




    DISPROPORTIONATE ANALYSIS
        Analysis Considers Disproportionate Impacts from
        Public Safety (Police)
         o      Limited fire call data


        Process:
         o      Determine Cost per Call


        Establish Baseline Level of Service (LOS)
         o      Rental Units - Single Family Average
         o      Commercial Average


        Calculate Disproportionate Fees by Business Group

    8



8




                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                             2/27/2026




     DISPROPORTIONATE ANALYSIS
       Max Disproportionate Fees Preferred Scenario

                                                                               ALT DEMAND         DISP. IMPACT PER
                                                        # BUSINESSES                                                      ADJUSTMENT       COST PER UNIT
                                                                               UNIT (BEDS)            BUSINESS

     Banking/Credit Union                                         7.00                                        2.02                40%                $644

     Convenience Store/Gas                                        5.00                                       15.02                25%              $3,062

     Educational Services                                         3.00                                        0.51                40%                $238

     Entertainment                                                3.00                                        1.82                40%                $606

     Grocery Stores                                               3.00                                       18.15                25%              $3,943

     Hotels                                                       4.00                   478                 34.07                25%                 $61

     Nursing, Residential, and Personal Care                      9.00                   529                 41.15                40%                $300

     Pharmacy/Drugstore                                           3.00                                       14.64                25%              $2,921

     Restaurant with Liquor                                     27.00                                         2.04                25%                $408

     Restaurant/Fast Food Without Liquor                        32.00                                         0.91                25%                $183

     Smoke Shops                                                  1.00                                        3.30                40%              $1,055




        9


9




    COST RECOVERY ANALYSIS
                                                                                                         ALLOCATED TOTAL
              REVENUE ANALYSIS                                         UNITS          FEE PER UNIT
                                                                                                              COST
              New Business

              Commercial                                                       138              $298                  $41,181
              Home Occupation Regulated                                          5              $652                   $3,258

              Renewals

              Commercial                                                       748               $87                  $64,953

              Home Occupation Regulated                                         31               $87                   $2,692
              Subtotal:                                                                                              $112,082

              Disproportionated Fees
              Banking/Credit Union                                               7              $644                   $4,511
              Convenience Store/Gas                                              5             $3,062                 $15,309
              Educational Services                                               3              $238                    $715
              Entertainment                                                      3              $606                   $1,818
              Grocery Stores                                                     3             $3,943                 $11,830
              Hotels                                                           478               $61                  $29,039
              Nursing, Residential, and Personal Care                          529              $300                 $158,488
              Pharmacy/Drugstore                                                 3             $2,921                  $8,763
              Restaurant with Liquor                                            27              $408                  $11,016
              Restaurant/Fast Food Without Liquor                               32              $183                   $5,840
                                                                                                                                Holladay City collected an
              Smoke Shops                                                        1             $1,055                  $1,055   average of $292,279 in
                                                                                                                                business license fees from
              Subtotal:                                                                                              $248,383
                                                                                                                                FY 2021 to FY 2024
              Combined:                                                                                              $360,446
        10



10




                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                         2/27/2026




 QUESTIONS
 Fred Philpot | Vice President/COO
 LRB Public Finance Advisors
 O 801.596.0700 | C801.243.0293
 lrbfinance.com

 Lewis Young Robertson & Burningham is now LRB Public Finance Advisors




11




                                                                                6
                                        City of Holladay
                                        CITY COUNCIL

MEETING DATE: March 5, 2025
SUBJECT: Highland Drive Reconstruction Project
SUBMITTED BY: Jared Bunch, PE, Public Services Director
______________________________________________________________________________

The Highland Drive Reconstruction Project consists of widening Highland Drive from Arbor Lane to
Van Winkle Expressway to achieve a minimum of 5 lanes, a continuous sidewalk on the west side
and a 10-ft active transportation path on the east side. In 2024, The city council approved a
Typical Cross Section for the project.

The city recently received survey of the corridor and has analyzed the existing lot lines and
improvements (landscaping, curb & gutters, utility poles, etc.) to identify alignments for the
proposed improvements with a low impact on existing improvements while balancing the right of
way acquisition needs.

The purpose of this presentation is to present concept plans that show where proposed
improvements deviate from the Typical Cross Section and to try and illustrate some of the impacts.
The following are enclosed:

   1) Typical Cross Section
   2) Before and After Conditions at 5 locations
   3) Plan sheets showing Before and After for the length of the corridor. Proposed
      improvements that heavily impact existing improvements are noted with a highlighted
      yellow.




                              4580 S 2300 E, Holladay, UT 84037                                  1
BEFORE
5300 S Highland Dr - East Side - Monarch Woods Ln to 5290 S
Designs and images shown are preliminary and subject to change.
AFTER
5300 S Highland Dr - East Side - Monarch Woods Ln to 5290 S
Designs and images shown are preliminary and subject to change.
BEFORE
5557 S Highland Dr - East Side - Olympus Point Dr to Olympus Point Dr
Designs and images shown are preliminary and subject to change.
AFTER
5557 S Highland Dr - East Side - Olympus Point Dr to Olympus Point Dr
Designs and images shown are preliminary and subject to change.
BEFORE
5640 S Highland Dr - East Side - Pheasant Way to 5600 S
Designs and images shown are preliminary and subject to change.
AFTER
5640 S Highland Dr - East Side - Pheasant Way to 5600 S
Designs and images shown are preliminary and subject to change.
BEFORE
5780 S Highland Dr - East Side - Frontier Rd to Hedgewood Ct
Designs and images shown are preliminary and subject to change.
AFTER
5780 S Highland Dr - East Side - Frontier Rd to Hedgewood Ct
Designs and images shown are preliminary and subject to change.
BEFORE
5850 S Highland Dr - West Side - Charleston Ln to Frontier Rd
Designs and images shown are preliminary and subject to change.
AFTER
5850 S Highland Dr - West Side - Charleston Ln to Frontier Rd
Designs and images shown are preliminary and subject to change.
            Sports Field Use Fees
                             Local Organized Sports Clubs Only

              CITY PARK                                     SPRING LANE

           Facility                  Fee                   Facility           Fee


   Ball Field (NW, SE, SW)          $10/day             Full Grass Field    $80/day


Ball Field (NE Stone Bleachers)     $20/day                Deposit         $500/season


           Deposit                $500/season


         Storage Unit              $600/year
