                                   NOTICE OF A MEETING OF THE
                                 CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                      THURSDAY, MAY 7, 2026

                                Holladay Council Chambers - 3330 S 1300 E


PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a Council meeting on
Thursday, May 7, 2026 at 6:00 pm. Members of the Council may participate by electronic means if
needed. The Council Chambers shall serve as the anchor location.
* Agenda items may be moved in order, sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or in this agenda. Interested parties
are encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

To provide a public comment or make a comment during any public hearing, may do so in the following ways:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@holladayut.gov


                                                      AGENDA

I.       Welcome – Mayor Fotheringham

II.      Public Comments
         Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda may provide their
         comment via email to the Council before 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting to
         scarlson@holladayut.gov with the subject line: Public Comment. Comments are subject to the
         Public Comment Policy set forth below

III.     Public Hearing on Proposed Street Vacation at 2755 E Hillsden Dr
         ( modify the width of the right of way from sixty-six feet (65) to fifty feet (5) to align with current
         street improvements)

IV.      Public Hearing on Proposed Street Vacation at 1720 E Bunkerhill Rd
         (vacate a portion of the unused public street and associated improvements at the end of this dead-
         end residential street)

V.       Public Hearing on Utah Community Clean Energy Program
         (Holladay’s participation, by ordinance, in the program -
         https://www.utahrenewablecommunities.org/)

VI.      Presentation of 2026-2027 Tentative Budgets
VII.      Consideration of Resolution 2026-12 Acknowledging Receipt of and Adopting the
          Tentative 2026-27 Fiscal Year Budgets & Setting a Public Hearing for June 4, 2026
          (budget is required to be adopted by the city council for each new fiscal year. This proposed
          resolution adopts the tentative budget for the city's 1 July 2026 through 30 June 2027 fiscal
          year, establishes the date of the public hearing for such budget, and provides for public
          notice of the hearing)

VIII.     City Manager Report – Gina

IX.       Council Report & District Issues
          a. Calendar
             Council Meetings – May 14 & 21, June 4 & 11, 2026

X.        Closed Session For the Purpose(s) Described in U.C.A. 52-4-204 and 205

XI.       Adjourn




 Public Comment Polic & Procedure: During each regular Council Meeting there will be a Public Comment
 Time. The purpose of the Public Comment Time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council. Citizens requesting to
 address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and present it to the City Recorder. In general,
 the Chairman will allow an individual three minutes to address the Council. A spokesman, recognized as
 representing a group in attendance, may be allowed up to five minutes. Comments which cannot be made within
 these time limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting so
 they can be copied and distributed to the Council. At the conclusion of the Citizen Comment time, the Chairman
 may direct staff to assist the citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative
 department(s); or take no action. This policy also applies to all Public Hearings.


CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I certify that the above agenda notice was posted at Holladay City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah
Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,and the Holladay Library.

DATE POSTED: Monday, May 4, 2026 at 10:00 am
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC, City Recorder
City of Holladay


       Reasonable accommodation for individuals with disabilities or those needing language interpretation services
       can be provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at least three
                    days in advance. TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
                                                    City of Holladay
                                                    CITY COUNCIL

                       CITY OF HOLLADAY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE: May 7th, 2026
SUBJECT: Partial Street Vacation – Area West of 2755 E Hillsden Drive
SUBMITTED BY: Justice Tuffour, Planner II & GIS Manager – via Holladay Planning Commission


SUMMARY
Review and consideration of a recommendation submitted by the Planning Commission (PC). During public hearing on
February 27th, the PC has forwarded a recommendation to approve an application by Rock and Jolynn Schutjer, applicant
and owners of 2755 E Hillsden Drive to vacate a portion of unused right of way. The vacation proposes to add the unused
public street, directly west of their property on Hillsden Drive, including the area into applicant’s property (which is not
part of a subdivision).

ANAYSIS
S Hillsden Drive is a public street in Holladay City that extends approximately 568 ft north from the intersection of E
Hillsden Dr and 5345 S, terminating at the eastern intersections of Holladay Blvd. The subject street currently has a right
of way width of about 70 ft and provides residential neighborhood access for abutting properties unto secondary roads
like Holladay Blvd (east) and Haven Ln (west). The petitioners of this application (The Schutjers) own the property
immediately east of the subject street intersection.




Hillsden Dr. Partial Street Vacation
                                                     City of Holladay
                                                     CITY COUNCIL
While a written narrative is yet to be provided by the petitioners, early conversations and cross-verification from street
and aerial view imagery indicates that the portion of proposed area to be vacated on the subject street has been utilized by
the applicants for landscaping purposes. Complementary site plans and street views show that a driveway and fence have
been installed in this area for a while, with no current usability for vehicle travel or sidewalk installations.




Existing Condition of Subject Street

In light of these circumstances, the petitioners propose a partial
vacation of the portion of the street already used for landscaping
and driveway to enable them directly invest in necessary
improvements, allowing for responsible maintenance, improved
neighborhood appearance, and better utilization of the space –
while retaining sufficient right-of-way that meets minimum
residential street access width requirements. City ordinance
§2.11.300, 13.10A.150.B and §14.48 allows an applicant to
petition the city to vacate portions of public right of way. The
applicant, as the abutting property owner, is interested in receiving
this ‘unused’ public property.

The Technical Review Committee (TRC) evaluated the proposal
with respect to the General Plan’s roadway classification function,
current use, and neighborhood impacts. The TRC determined that
the roadway currently functions as a secondary residential street,
providing vehicular connectivity to other neighborhoods and


Hillsden Dr. Partial Street Vacation
                                                         City of Holladay
                                                         CITY COUNCIL
immediate direct driveway access for adjacent lots. While the General Plan recommends the he current width of such
street typologies to be between 20 ft and 50 ft, the current right of way width is about 70 ft. In terms of current use, the
portion proposed to be vacated is limited to private landscaping and fence installed by the petiotioners, with no foreseeable
need for City expansion or improvements. Moreover, the current width (even with landscaping encroachments) does not
limit emergency access or travel throughput (i.e., level of service). The TRC further finds that the proposal does not
adversely affect neighborhood safety, aesthetics, or right-of-way access, and does not create any zoning nonconformities
related to lot size or area standards.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS:
1. The TRC suggests that the Council approves the recommendation of the Planning Commission upon the following:

         All properties subject to this application will remain in compliance with the R-1-43 zoning regulations and standards.
         No new property, lots, or right of way will be created by the application.
         Proposed area to be vacated must begin at a surveyed distance of 25 ft from the center of the travel lane, in order to meet
          the General Plan’s roadway classification requirement.
         If approved and combined with existing parcel(s), a lot consolidation shall be completed.
         If the City conveys the vacated land to adjacent property owner, the demarcated parcel must be purchased at appraised
          market value.
         Unified Fire Authority (UFA) does not have any concerns with the proposed partial vacation, as no limitations are imposed
          on Fire Department access turnaround or snow storage requirements.
         If approved, property owner must work with the Public Works Department to configure the intersection design at the south
          western corner of the applicant’s property in a way that ensures travel safety and visibility.
         Good Cause for the vacation is established based on the following findings:
               o The portion of street requested for vacation is operationally defunct for travel, connectivity, and unmaintained
               o Proposed investments to use the space will improve neighborhood appearance
               o Maintains city standard public road dimensions and does not completely limit access
         Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by the vacation.
         No windfall enrichment to the abutting property owner is found when considering the added area and its relation to
          substantial property right(s) (i.e. the added area will not provide subdivision opportunity, added building height or
          additional land uses not currently enjoyed by property within the vicinity, etc.).

2. And with the following conditions:

         The applicant, upon consideration and direction from the Council, shall prepare a legal description of the ROW to be vacated
          for review and acceptance by the Salt Lake County Recorder’s office in order for the vacated land to be divided equitably
          between the applicant and the neighbor to the east and recorded.

RECOMMENDATION
All required materials for the petition for street vacation have been submitted and reviewed by the Technical Review
Committee (TRC). The application has been determined to be complete and ready for final review and consideration. The
Planning Commission agreed that the area proposed for partial street vacation is appropriate and acceptable for strong
consideration. The Council should conduct the required public hearing and moderate a discussion based upon guidance
of Holladay City Ordinances 13.10.080.D and 14.48 a final decision.

ATTACHMENTS:
Applicant Narrative
Aerial view of Property
Boundary Survey



Hillsden Dr. Partial Street Vacation
                                       City of Holladay
                                       CITY COUNCIL




Hillsden Dr. Partial Street Vacation
                                                     City of Holladay
                                                     CITY COUNCIL

                       CITY OF HOLLADAY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE: May 7th, 2026
SUBJECT: Partial Street Vacation – Intersection of 1720 E And Bunker Hill Road
SUBMITTED BY: Justice Tuffour, Planner II & GIS Manager – via Holladay Planning Commission


SUMMARY
Review and consideration of a recommendation submitted by the Planning Commission (PC). During public hearing on
January 10th, the PC has forwarded a recommendation to approve an application by Todd and Marylynn Porter, applicants
and poperty owners of 4901 S 1720 E to vacate a portion of unused right of way. The vacation proposes to add the unused
public street, west of their property at the junction of 1720 and Bunker Hill Road, including the area into applicant’s
property (Lot 98 Crown Colony Subdivision).

ANAYSIS
1720 E is a public street in Holladay City that extends approximately 120 ft north from the intersection of Bunkerhill
Road and terminates at the southern property boundary of the Woodsbridge Condominiums. Located on the eastern edge
of the Crown Colony Subdivision (platted in 1959), the street provides no through access and serves only two abutting
properties (4901 S 1702 E & 1707 E Bunkerhill Road). The petitioners of this application (The Porters) own the property
immediately east of the subject street.




The petitioners indicate that since residing at their property for nearly 28 years, the subject street has remained unimproved
and has continued to deteriorate, functioning as an underutilized dead-end corridor. They note ongoing concerns related


1720 E Partial Street Vacation
                                                     City of Holladay
                                                     CITY COUNCIL
to safety, accessibility, aesthetics, and property values, citing issues such as overgrown vegetation and illegal dumping.
Over the years, the petitioners indicate they have personally maintained the area by clearing debris, cleaning gutters, and
managing weeds.




Existing Condition of Subject Street

In light of these circumstances, they propose a partial vacation
of this street to enable them directly invest in necessary
improvements, allowing for responsible maintenance,
improved neighborhood appearance, and better utilization of
the space – while retaining sufficient right-of-way to meet fire
and emergency vehicle access and turnaround requirements.
City ordinance §2.11.300, 13.10A.150.B and §14.48 allows an
applicant to petition the city to vacate portions of public right
of way. The applicant, as the abutting property owner, is
interested in receiving this ‘unused’ public property.

The Technical Review Committee (TRC) evaluated the
proposal with respect to roadway function, current use,
emergency access, and neighborhood impacts. The TRC
determined that the roadway is functionally obsolete, as it
provides no vehicular connectivity to other neighborhoods and
does not serve as direct driveway access for adjacent lots. Its


1720 E Partial Street Vacation
                                                         City of Holladay
                                                         CITY COUNCIL
current use is limited to informal parking for trailers and accessory vehicles, with no foreseeable need for City expansion
or improvements. Since Bunkerhill road dead-ends about 250 ft East from intersection of 1720, a portion of 1720 E would
naturally serve as the designated turnaround for emergency access. The proposed partial vacation preserves sufficient
unvacated right-of-way to accommodate fire and emergency vehicle turnaround requirements. The TRC further finds that
the proposal does not adversely affect neighborhood safety, aesthetics, or right-of-way access, and does not create any
zoning nonconformities related to lot size or area standards.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS:
1. The TRC suggests that the Council approves the recommendation of the Planning Commission upon the following:

         All properties subject to this application will remain in compliance with the R-1-8 zoning regulations and standards.
         No new property, lots, or right of way will be created by the application.
         If approved and combined with existing parcel(s), a lot consolidation and subdivision amendment shall be completed.
         If the City conveys the vacated land to adjacent property owner(s) without sale at appraised market value, the property
          owner to the west shall be consulted, as they may have rights to the centerline of the street.
         Unified Fire Authority (UFA) requires that 60 feet measured from the centerline of Bunkerhill Road north of 1720 E be
          designated as a Fire Department access turnaround, with an additional 10 feet reserved for snow storage.
         Good Cause for the vacation is established based on the following findings:
               o The portion of street requested for vacation is operationally defunct for travel, connectivity, and unmaintained
               o Proposed investments to use the space will improve neighborhood appearance
               o Maintains city standard public road dimensions and does not completely limit access
         Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by the vacation.
         No windfall enrichment to the abutting property owner is found when considering the added area and its relation to substantial
          property right(s) (i.e. the added area will not provide subdivision opportunity, added building height or additional land uses
          not currently enjoyed by property within the vicinity, etc.).

2. And with the following conditions:

         The applicant, upon consideration and direction from the Council, shall prepare a legal description of the ROW to be vacated
          for review and acceptance by the Salt Lake County Recorder’s office in order for the vacated land to be divided equitably
          between the applicant and the neighbor to the east and recorded.

RECOMMENDATION
All required materials for the petition for street vacation have been submitted and reviewed by the Technical Review
Committee (TRC). The application has been determined to be complete and ready for final review and consideration. The
Planning Commission agreed that the area proposed for partial street vacation is appropriate and acceptable for strong
consideration. The Council should conduct the required public hearing and moderate a discussion based upon guidance
of Holladay City Ordinances 13.10.080.D and 14.48 a final decision.

ATTACHMENTS:
Applicant Narrative
Site and Zoning Maps

FISCAL IMPACT:
n/a

SUGGESTED MOTION:
Motion to continue to work session.



1720 E Partial Street Vacation
                                 City of Holladay
                                 CITY COUNCIL




1720 E Partial Street Vacation
                                 City of Holladay
                                 CITY COUNCIL




1720 E Partial Street Vacation
                                         TITLE 3
                                   REVENUE AND FINANCE

                                    CHAPTER 3.32
                           COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM

SECTION:
3.32.010:    Participation In Community Clean Energy Program
3.32.020:    Customer Participation In Community Clean Energy Program.
3.32.030:    Termination Fees
3.32.040:    Acquisition Of Clean Energy Resources
3.32.050:    Program Rates And Rate Adjustment Filings
3.32.060:    Utility Billing For Participating Customers
3.32.070:    City Participation In Program

3.32.010:    PARTICIPATION IN COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM:

   A. The City hereby establishes its participation in the Community Clean Energy
      Program (“Program”) as approved by the Public Service Commission of Utah
      (“Commission”).

   B. On March 4, 2026, the Commission issued an order in Docket No. 25-035-06
      (“Commission Order”) approving the Program. The Commission Order is on file with
      the Commission. The Program’s rates, Rules, and requirements are governed by the
      Commission Order, and may be modified from time to time by subsequent Rules and
      orders adopted by the Commission. To the extent that the Commission Order or any
      subsequent rule or order adopted by the Commission contradicts any portion of this
      Title, the Commission order or rule or order adopted by the Commission shall
      govern.

   C. ELIGIBLE CUSTOMERS. Pursuant to Utah Code § 54-17-905(5), residential
      customers participating in the net metering program under Utah Code Title 54,
      Chapter 15, Net Metering of Electricity, Rocky Mountain Power Schedule 135, are
      not eligible to participate in the Program. All other retail electric customers of Rocky
      Mountain Power within the current and future boundaries of the City, including all
      residential, commercial, and industrial customers, are eligible to participate in the
      Program (“Eligible Customer”). Eligible Customers include rooftop solar customers
      on Rocky Mountain Power Schedules 136 and 137, which are compensated through
      an export credit rather than a net metering credit.

   D. IMPLEMENTATION DATE. The Program shall be implemented on the date that RMP
      sends out the first Notices identified in Section 3.32.020, below (“Program
      Implementation Date”). Eligible Customers shall be enrolled in the Program if they
      receive the Notices and decline to opt out of participation in the Program by the date
      set forth in the Notices. Consistent with the Act and the Rules, the Notices shall be
      sent to each Eligible Customer before the commencement date that applies to each
      such customer (“Customer Commencement Date”), as set forth in the Rules.
3.32.020:      CUSTOMER PARTICIPATION IN COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM:

   A. Each Eligible Customer shall be automatically enrolled in the Program unless the
      customer opts out of the Program prior to the Customer Commencement Date.

   B. NOTICES. As set forth in the Act and the Rules before any Eligible Customer becomes
      a participant in the Program, Rocky Mountain Power first shall deliver to each
      Eligible Customer certain notices (collectively, the “Notices”) containing content and
      in the form, manner, and delivery method as required by the Act and Rules and
      other orders and Rules.

   C. OPT-OUT. Each Eligible Customer may elect not to participate in the Program and
      instead to pay applicable existing electric rates by giving notice to Rocky Mountain
      Power in the manner and within the time period set forth in the Notices.

            1. FIRST OPT-OUT NOTICE. Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a First Opt-
               Out Notice, separate from standard monthly bills, to each Eligible Customer
               within the City, no earlier than sixty (60) days and no later than thirty (30)
               days before the Customer Commencement Date applicable to each customer.
               The First Opt-Out Notice shall, in all material respects, use the form and
               content of the First Opt-Out Notice as approved by the Commission.

            2. SECOND OPT-OUT NOTICE. Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a Second
               Opt-Out Notice, separate from standard monthly bills, to each Eligible
               Customer within the City, at least fifteen (15) days after the First Opt-Out
               Notice was provided and at least seven (7) days before the Customer
               Commencement Date applicable to such customer. The Second Opt-Out
               Notice shall, in all material respects, use the form and content of the Second
               Opt-Out Notice as approved by the Commission.

            3. Each Eligible Customer that receives the First Opt-Out Notice and the Second
               Opt-Out Notice as described herein and declines to opt out of the Program by
               the customer’s Customer Commencement Date will be enrolled in the
               Program.

   D. CUSTOMER OPTION TO OPT IN TO PROGRAM. An Eligible Customer located
      within the City that is not enrolled in the Program may at any time elect to
      participate in the Program by providing notice to Rocky Mountain Power in the form
      and content approved by the Commission. Following such notice to opt in to the
      Program, the customer will be enrolled in the Program starting with the billing
      period following the notice in which it is reasonably practicable for Rocky Mountain
      Power to enroll such customer. The reasonably practicable billing period shall be
      based on when the notice was received from the customer and the customer’s
      billing cycle. Following enrollment in the Program, the customer shall be subject to
      all Program requirements.
   E. CUSTOMER OPTION TO EXIT PROGRAM. Customers enrolled in the Program may
      exit the Program by giving notice to Rocky Mountain Power.

3.32.030:      TERMINATION FEES:

   A. If a customer declines to opt out of the Program prior to the applicable Customer
      Commencement Date, but subsequently exits the Program, the exiting customer may
      be required to pay a termination fee, as set forth in this Section.

   B. When applicable, the amount of the termination fee shall be based on the rate
      schedule of the exiting customer as approved by the Commission and may be
      modified from time to time by subsequent orders of the Commission.

   C. CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH TERMINATION FEE SHALL NOT APPLY: A
      Termination Fee shall not apply in the following circumstances:

            1. Any customer that opts out of the Program within the “Cancellation Period”
               applicable to that customer, as defined in the Rules.

            2. Any customer that ceases to be an electric customer of Rocky Mountain
               Power;

            3. Any customer that moves to a new location that is not within the boundaries
               of a community that participates in the Program;

            4. Any customer that seeks protection through bankruptcy proceedings;

            5. Any customer enrolled in Schedule 3 bill assistance (“Low-Income Lifeline
               Program”).

3.32.040:      ACQUISITION OF CLEAN ENERGY RESOURCES:

   A. For purposes of this section, “clean energy resource” shall have the definition set
      forth in the Act.

   B. Rocky Mountain Power may adopt or procure one or more clean energy resources
      to serve the needs and goals of the Program. The acquisition of any such clean
      energy resource must follow solicitation application and evaluation criteria
      approved by the Commission.

   C. Any clean energy resource adopted or procured by Rocky Mountain Power to serve
      the needs and goals of the Program must be approved by the Commission based on
      a finding the same is reasonable and in the public interest.

   D. The Commission shall determine the method of cost recovery for any clean energy
      resource acquired to meet Program needs and goals, and the Commission’s
      determination regarding cost recovery may affect Program rates.
3.32.050:      PROGRAM RATES AND RATE ADJUSTMENT FILINGS:

   A. Program rates will be determined by the Commission.

   B. The initial Program rates were determined by the Commission in the Commission
      Order.

   C. Program rates may be adjusted by the Commission from time to time, consistent with
      the procedures approved by the Commission for adjusting Program rates.

3.32.060:      UTILITY BILLING FOR PARTICIPATING CUSTOMERS:

   A. Rocky Mountain Power shall bill each Participating Customer on a monthly basis
      and shall:

            1. include information in its monthly bills to participating customers identifying
               the Program cost; and

            2. provide notice to participating customers of any change in rates for
               participation in the Program.

3.32.070:      CITY PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAM:

   A. Through its membership in the Community Renewable Energy Agency, City
      participated in the design and approval of the Program and shall participate in
      future decisions regarding clean energy resource solicitation, clean energy resource
      acquisition, and certain other Program issues.

   B. Consistent with Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(a), City entered into an agreement with
      Rocky Mountain Power (“RMP”) regarding the facilitation of the Program (“Utility
      Agreement”). Pursuant to the Utility Agreement, City:

            1. shall pay for the costs of third-party expertise contracted for in connection
               with the Program’s development and initial approval by the Commission;

            2. shall pay its proportional costs associated with RMP providing the Notices to
               the City’s customers as discussed in Section 3.32.020, above;

            3. Termination charges not paid by a participating customer shall be included
               in participating customer rates and shall not be paid by City;

            4. There shall be no initially proposed “Replaced Asset” as that term is defined
               by Utah Code § 54-17-902(15).

   C. City has already approved the appropriation of funds and has already paid those
      funds to the Agency for the Agency to make payments for the costs of third-party
   expertise contracted for in connection with the Program’s development and initial
   approval by the Commission pursuant to the Governance Agreement.

D. City has approved the appropriation of funds to pay its proportional costs
   associated with RMP providing the Notices to the City’s customers as discussed in
   Section 3.32.020, above.

E. City shall not be obligated to pay any costs of the Program other than those costs set
   forth herein and any costs that the City may bear as a utility customer that
   participates in the Program, if applicable.
                                      CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-12

               A RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE TENTATIVE 2026-2027 FISCAL
               YEAR BUDGET FOR THE CITY OF HOLLADAY.

       WHEREAS, Section 10-6-111 requires the City Manager to submit tentative budgets for the
various general and capital funds for each upcoming fiscal year on or before the first regularly
scheduled City Council meeting in May; and

       WHEREAS, the City Manager has submitted the required budget in a timely fashion to the
City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has determined a public hearing should be held on June 4,
2026, to receive citizen comments regarding the proposed budgets;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

      (1) That the FY 2026-2027 Tentative Budgets submitted by the City Manager are hereby
accepted and tentatively adopted.
       (2)     That a public hearing to consider the proposed budgets be set for June 4, 2026, at
6:00 p.m. at the Temporary City Offices, 3330 S 1300 E., Millcreek, Utah 84106.

       (3) That the Tentative Budgets shall be made available for inspection by the general
public for a minimum of ten (10) days prior to the scheduled public hearing.

         PASSED AND APPROVED this __ day of May, 2026.

                                                HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                By: ____________________________________
                                                     Paul Fotheringham, Mayor

[SEAL]                                          VOTING:
                                                David Sundwall            Yea       Nay ___
                                                Matt Durham               Yea       Nay ___
                                                Natalie Bradley           Yea       Nay ___
                                                Drew Quinn                Yea       Nay ___
                                                Emily Gray                Yea       Nay ___
                                                Paul Fotheringham         Yea       Nay ___
ATTEST:

_____________________________
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
