                                 NOTICE OF A MEETING OF THE
                               CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2026

5:00 p.m.     Council Dinner – Council members will be eating dinner. No city business will be
              discussed.

5:30 p.m.     Briefing Session - The Council will review and discuss the agenda items; NO decisions will
              be made

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a Council meeting
on Thursday, February 19, 2026 at 6:00 pm. Members of the Council may participate by electronic
means if needed. The Council Chambers shall serve as the anchor location.
* Agenda items may be moved in order, sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or in this agenda. Interested
parties are encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

To provide a public comment or make a comment during any public hearing, may do so in the following ways:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@holladayut.gov


                                                    AGENDA


I.       Welcome – Mayor Fotheringham

II.      Pledge of Allegiance –

III.     Public Comments
         Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda may provide their
         comment via email to the Council before 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting to
         scarlson@holladayut.gov with the subject line: Public Comment. Comments are subject to the
         Public Comment Policy set forth below

IV.      Consideration of Ordinance 2026 -01 Amending Title 13.86.020 by adding 2394 E Murray
         Holladay Rd to the Historic Designation List

V.       Consideration of Resolution 2026-05 Approving Naming Rights and Donation Agreement wth
         Judd & Becca Tolman

VI.      Consideration of Resolution 2026-06 Adopting Policies Relating to the Use of Generative
         Artificial Intelligence by City Staff

VII.     Consent Agenda
         a. Approval of Minutes - Jan 8 & 22, 2026

VIII.    City Manager Report – Gina Chamness
VIII.     Council Report & District Issues

IX.       Recess City Council in a Work Meeting:
          a. Holladay Crossroads Update - Jon
          b. Spring Lane Bridging Update - Holly
          c. Calendar
             Council Meetings –March 5 & 19
             Tiny Art Show – March 6-12
             Speaker Series – March 16
X.        Closed Session For the Purpose(s) Described in U.C.A. 52-4-204 and
          205

XI.       Adjourn




 Public Comment Polic & Procedure: During each regular Council Meeting there will be a Public Comment
 Time. The purpose of the Public Comment Time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council. Citizens requesting to
 address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and present it to the City Recorder. In general,
 the Chairman will allow an individual three minutes to address the Council. A spokesman, recognized as
 representing a group in attendance, may be allowed up to five minutes. Comments which cannot be made within
 these time limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting so
 they can be copied and distributed to the Council. At the conclusion of the Citizen Comment time, the Chairman
 may direct staff to assist the citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative
 department(s); or take no action. This policy also applies to all Public Hearings.


CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I certify that the above agenda notice was posted at Holladay City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the
Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,and the Holladay Library.

DATE POSTED: Tuesday, February 17, 2026 at 9:30 am
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC, City Recorder
City of Holladay


         Reasonable accommodation for individuals with disabilities or those needing language interpretation
      services can be provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at
             least three days in advance. TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2026-01

               AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
               HOLLADAY DESIGNATING THAT CERTAIN PROPERTY LOCATED
               AT 2394 E MURRAY HOLLADAY ROAD AS A HISTORIC SITE
               PURSUANT TO THE ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY

        WHEREAS, the owner of property located at 2394 E Murray Holladay Rd within the City
of Holladay, has requested that the City Council designate the home as a historic site pursuant to
the City’s ordinances; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay has held a public hearing and finds
that it will serve the public interest and is in the best interests of the property owner and the
residents of the City that property be designated a historic site.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Municipal Council of the City of Holladay,
Utah as follows:

        Section 1.       Adoption and Codification. The City Council of the City of Holladay
hereby finds that the property located at 2394 E Murray Holladay Rd is a historic site within the
meaning of the City’s ordinances and should be designated as a historic site. The provisions of
Section 13.86.020(a) of the City Code of the City of Holladay are hereby amended to read in
their entirety as set forth in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference

        Section 2.     Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       Section 3.       Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or
posting or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.

         PASSED AND APPROVED this 19th day of February, 2026.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Paul Fotheringham, Mayor


[SEAL]                                           VOTING:
                                                 David Sundwall             Yea       Nay ___
                                                 Matt Durham                Yea       Nay ___
                                                 Natalie Bradley            Yea       Nay ___
                                                 Drew Quinn                 Yea       Nay ___
                                                 Emily Gray                 Yea       Nay ___
                                                 Paul Fotheringham          Yea       Nay ___
                                                                                                            13.86.020 Historic Register DRAFT
                                                                                                                          Council 02/05/2026

CHAPTER 13.86
HISTORIC PRESERVATION

SECTION:

13.86.010: Purpose
13.86.020: Historic Sites Register
13.86.030: Historic Site Modification Permit Conditional Use Permit Required
13.86.040: Noncomplying Conditional Uses
13.86.045: Protective Maintenance Required
13.86.050: Site Modification
13.86.060: Additional Uses For Historic Sites
13.86.065: Modification Defined
13.86.070: Interpretation Of Chapter



13.86.010: PURPOSE:

For the purpose of this chapter the term preservation shall refer to the act or process of applying measures necessary to sustain the
existing form, integrity, and materials of an historic property.

This chapter is enacted to establish a historic site register and to provide a sustainable means by which a property owner may
maintain a historic site designated by the city council. Provisions within this chapter intend to preserve sites, structures, landmarks
or buildings with special historical, architectural or aesthetic value which are unique and irreplaceable assets. To accomplish this
purpose, planning commission may approve conditional permits for additional land uses approval is required and all modifications to
historical sites. (Ord. 2012-15, 9-20-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-21, 11-21-2024)

13.86.020: HISTORIC SITES DESIGNATED:

 A. Existing Sites: Each of the following structures and sites in the city is designated a historic site and are subject to the provisions
and standards of this chapter:

   1.   David Branson Brinton home, 1981 East Murray-Holladay Road, Holladay.
   2.   Santa Anna Casto home, 2731 Casto Lane, Holladay (relocated to City Hall Park, 2009).
   3.   William J. Bowthorpe home, 4910 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay.
   4.   George Boyes home, 4766 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay.
   5.   David McDonald home, 4659 Highland Drive, Holladay.
   6.   Dinwoodey Home, 2052 E Arbor Lane.
   7.   Casper Cottage, 2394 E Murray Holladay Road, Holladay


 B. Amendments: The city council may amend the above list of historic sites and structures, including removing or designating of
additional historic sites, subject to the amendment procedures in chapter 13.07.050 of this code. (Ord. 2012-15, 9-20-2012; amd.
Ord. 2024-21, 11-21-2024)

13.86.030: HISTORIC SITE MODIFICATION REQUIREMENTS CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:

  A. Modifications: A conditional use permit is required for any modifications to a historic site or structure, including modifications
to the landscaping, fencing or appearance of any lot, construction, alteration, relocation, improvement or conversion of a historic
site.

  B. Demolitions: A site listed on the Historic Site Register proposed to be demolished or extensively altered is subject to the
following:

   1. Upon verification of a complete permit, the city will delay issuing the modification permit for a maximum of thirty (30) days to
document the property. The property owner shall work with the city staff in the collaboration with other entities, where needed, in
providing access to the site for documentation process.
                                                                                                         13.86.020 Historic Register DRAFT
                                                                                                                       Council 02/05/2026
   2. Documentation shall include, at minimum, exterior photographs of all elevations of the structure. When possible, both
exterior and interior measurements of the structure will be made in order to provide an accurate floor-plan drawing of the structure.

   3. The demolition permit will be issued after thirty (30) days of the initial application whether or not the city has completed
documenting the building. The permit may be issued earlier if documentation is completed before the thirty (30) day deadline.

   4. The documentation will be kept on file with the Community and Economic Development Department, which shall be open to
the public.

  C. Application: Applications for a conditional use permit on a historic site shall be made by the property owner in the manner and
subject to the procedures and requirements set forth in section 13.08.040 of this title. To the extent that the requirements of this
chapter and section 13.08.040 of this title are inconsistent, the requirements of this chapter shall prevail. (Ord. 2012-15, 9-20-2012;
amd. Ord. 2024-21, 11-21-2024)
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                     RESOLUTION NO. 2026-

         A RESOLUTION APPROVING A NAMING RIGHTS AND DONATION AGREEMENT
                          WITH JUDD AND BECCA TOLMAN

        WHEREAS, the City of Holladay operates a number of baseball fields at City Hall Park
within the City; and

        WHEREAS, the Judd and Becca Tolman desire to provide a monetary donation to the
City in exchange for the City naming a designated baseball field in honor of a deceased child;
and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that it will serve the public interest and
benefit the public welfare to enter into a Naming Rights and Donation Agreement with Judd and
Becca Tolman; and

        WHEREAS, the parties now desire to enter into a Naming Rights and Donation Agreement
for the benefit of the citizens of Holladay; and

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

        Section 1. Approval. The City Council of the City of Holladay hereby approves that
certain Naming Rights and Donation Agreement with Judd and Becca Tolman, attached hereto as
Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference. The Mayor of the City is hereby authorized to
execute the Agreement for and in behalf of the City.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.

             PASSED AND APPROVED this ___ day of February, 2026.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL


                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Paul Fotheringham, Mayor
                   NAMING RIGHTS AND DONATION AGREEMENT

        This Naming Rights and Donation Agreement (“Agreement”) is made effective this ___
day of ________, 2026 (the “Effective Date”) by and between the City of Holladay, a Utah
municipal corporation (“City”), and Judd Tolman and Becca Tolman (“Donors”), collectively
referred to as the “Parties.”

                                           RECITALS

        WHEREAS, the City operates a number of baseball fields at City Hall Park within the
City; and

        WHEREAS, the Donors desire to provide a monetary donation to the City in exchange
for the City naming a designated baseball field in honor of a deceased child; and

      WHEREAS, the Parties desire to enter this Agreement to set forth the terms of the donation
and naming rights granted;

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:

        1.    Incorporation of Recitals. The foregoing Recitals are hereby incorporated as part
of this Agreement.

       2.      Donation.

              a.      Donors agree to donate Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00) to the
       City. Payment shall be made to the City of Holladay within a reasonable time following
       execution of this Agreement, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Parties.

              b.      The City acknowledges that this donation is made voluntarily and without
       expectation of any benefit other than the naming rights described herein.

       3.     Naming of Baseball Field. In consideration of the donation, the City agrees to
name the southwest baseball field at City Hall Park as the:

                                “Eddie Kimball Baseball Field.”

        The naming rights granted under this Agreement shall be for a term of ten (10) years,
beginning January 1, 2026, and ending December 31, 2036, unless terminated earlier as provided
in this Agreement. Upon expiration of the term, City shall grant to Donors the first right to renew
the naming rights under this Agreement, upon terms acceptable to the Parties.

       4.     Commemorative Plaque or Sign. The City shall fabricate and install, at its
expense, a commemorative plaque or sign recognizing the name “Eddie Kimball Baseball Field.”


                                           Page 1 of 3
The design, size, placement, and materials of the plaque or sign shall be determined by the City
in its reasonable discretion, consistent with City standards and policies.

       5.       Maintenance of Field. The City agrees to continue to operate and maintain the
baseball field in good condition, consistent with the City’s normal standards for park and field
maintenance. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require the City to provide a level
of maintenance beyond that customarily provided to similar City facilities.

        6.     No Ownership Interest. Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted as
granting Donors any ownership interest in the field, the park, or any City property, nor any
control over programming, scheduling, or use of the field.

       7.      Termination.

                a.      This Agreement shall automatically expire at the conclusion of the ten-
       year term described in Section 3. Upon expiration, the City may, at its discretion, remove
       or replace the commemorative plaque or sign and rename the field, subject to Donor’s
       first right to renew as set forth in Section 3, above.

               b.      The City reserves the right to terminate this Agreement prior to expiration
       if continued use of the name becomes impractical or inconsistent with City policies, law,
       or public interest, provided the City makes reasonable efforts to notify Donors. Upon
       early termination, the City shall refund to Donors a pro-rated amount of the donation,
       based on a term of 120 months, with partial months rounded down to the closest full
       month.

        8.     Indemnification. Donors agree to indemnify and hold harmless the City, its
officers, employees, and agents from any claims arising out of Donors’ actions related to this
Agreement, except to the extent caused by the City’s negligence or willful misconduct.

       9.     Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Utah.

         10.   Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
Parties regarding the subject matter herein and supersedes all prior negotiations or
understandings, whether written or oral. Any amendments must be in writing and signed by all
Parties.

        11.     Authority. Each person signing this Agreement represents that they have full
authority to bind the respective Party on whose behalf they are signing.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and
through their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first above
written.
                                             “City”


                                           Page 2 of 3
 CITY OF HOLLADAY, a Utah municipal
 corporation




 “Donors”


 Judd Tolman



 Becca Tolman




Page 3 of 3
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                     RESOLUTION NO. 2025-

        A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY ADOPTING
       POLICIES RELATING TO THE USE OF GENERATIVE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE BY
                                     CITY STAFF

       WHEREAS, the City Manager has made a recommendation to the Council that the Council
approve and adopt policies relating to the use of Generative Artificial Intelligence by City Staff;
and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the proposed policies and finds that they will
benefit the public of the City;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

       Section 1. Approval. The City Council of the City of Holladay hereby adopts the
Financial Policies, attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.

             PASSED AND APPROVED this ___ day of April, 2025.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL


                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Paul Fotheringham, Mayor

[SEAL]                                           VOTING:
                                                 David Sumdwall             Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Matt Durham                Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Natalie Bradley            Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Drew Quinn                 Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Emily Gray                 Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Paul Fotheringham          Yea        Nay ___
                     GENERATIVE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE POLICY

Section 1. BACKGROUND

Intelligence is defined as the ability to learn, understand, and make judgments or have opinions
that are based on reason. Artificial Intelligence ("Al"), or "traditional Al," is the use of computer
systems (algorithms and binary codes) to mimic or simulate human intelligence. Examples of
applying traditional Al include Web search engines (e.g., Google Search, Amazon, and Netflix},
stock trading, video games, medical diagnosis, and computer chess. Further examples include
image recognition and translation. Traditional Al applies pre-defined rules to make decisions
and predictions based on historical data.

Generative Al ("GenAI") is a subset of Al. It is a group of emerging and relatively new
technologies that use very large amounts of data to create new data or content based on a
user's input or "prompts." GenAI can create images, text, music, code, audio, and videos by
learning patterns and creating new variations. GenAl can be trained to learn new subjects and
can reuse its training data to solve new problems. Other uses of GenAI include the creation of
chatbots and media, and the analysis of customer data to personalize customer service. There
are many GenAI systems. A few familiar ones are ChatGPT, Grammarly and Microsoft Copilot.
GenAI systems may be standalone programs or non-AI software with imbedded GenAI features.

GenAl is rapidly evolving, and the potential risks to the City are not completely understood. Use
of these systems could have unanticipated impacts. GenAI systems are believed to have the
potential to support City services. However, their use also comes with risk. Areas of concern
include the handling of sensitive or private data, ensuring proper attribution of content produced
by generative Al, and being accountable and cognizant of what training data is relied upon.
Employees should not use generative Al to support critical processes until the risks are better
understood.

Section 2. PURPOSE

To encourage responsible evaluation and use of generative AI (and any AI) to support our
workforce to deliver better, safer, more efficient and equitable services to our residents. This
Policy is designed to establish guidelines and best practices that departments will observe when
acquiring and using software that meets the definition of generative Al.

Section 3. SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY

This Policy applies to all City agents, including its departments and employees, referred to
herein as “person(s)” or “user(s).” It applies to GenAI technology purchased by the City or used
by an employee for City purposes. Any existing technology that adds GenAI capabilities must
be used consistent with this Policy.




                                                 1
Section 4. POLICY

   A.     Use of GenAI Tools

         1. Authorization. The City Manager has the authority to review and approve
GenAI tools for use by the City and its agents. No GenAI tool may be used for any City
purpose unless such approval is given.

             a.     Approved Programs. The following GenAI programs have been
                    approved by the City Manager for use:

                          i.    ChatGPT, developed by OpenAI LLC.

                         ii.    Grammarly, developed by Superhuman Platform, Inc.

                         iii.   Google Gemini, developed by Google LLC.

                         iv.    Microsoft CoPilot, developed by Microsoft Corp.

             b.     Use Restrictions. Approved GenAI programs must be used in
                    accordance with the provisions of this Policy.

             c.     Review Meetings. Quarterly meetings will be held to review AI
                    advancements and requests for new tools.

         2. User Responsibilities. Any person using GenAI for City purposes shall:

             a.     Thoroughly review, revise, and fact-check any output produced by the
                    GenAI. Users are responsible for any material they create with AI
                    support.

             b.     Cite the generative AI when a substantial portion of the content used in the
                    final version comes from the generative AI.

             c.     Use their City e-mail address to register and to create an account. The
                    account associated with an employee's City e-mail address may only be
                    used for City purposes. Personal use of an approved GenAI tool from
                    an account using a City e-mail is prohibited.

             d.     Opt-out of optional data collection to ensure that any data provided by
                    the user to the model is not retained by the model or its developer.

             e.     Follow all applicable Section 4(A)(3) Miscellaneous Provisions.

         3. Miscellaneous Provisions.

             a.     Any minutes created using GenAI must have a disclosure that they are
                    not the official record of the City.

   B.     Data Privacy
                                                2
          1. Unless suitable controls and data protections are in place, as determined by the
City Recorder, employees shall not submit data that is classified as controlled, protected, or
private under the Government Records Access and Management Act, or that is otherwise not
considered to be acceptable to publicly disclose to a GenAI system. This includes personally
identifying, confidential, and financial information of the City's residents, visitors, employees,
and other entities.

          2. Users should be aware that, in most cases, the use of a GenAI system will result
in the creation of a public record that must be retained under Utah's Government Records
Access and Management Act. See Utah Code Ann. §63G-2- 103(25).

          3. Users shall opt-out of data collection per Section 4(A)(2)(d).

          4. Users should not have any expectations of privacy when interacting with GenAI
tools.

            5. Users shall not use any private, protected, personally identifying, confidential,
financial, or security data when using GenAl, even if the users has opted out of data collection.

            6. Users shall verify that any used content produced by GenAI does not infringe any
copyright laws. If users are unable to verify such, they should edit the content to be original or
discard it.

    C.    Accountability

GenAI input and output are the responsibility of the user. Work done using GenAI must be
approached with care and attention to detail. The following principles shall guide and govern
the use of GenAI:

           1. Users shall review AI-generated content for accuracy prior to use. If the user
discovers the content is not accurate, the user shall edit the content for accuracy or discard it.
Users are responsible for the accuracy of the content used and will be held accountable for
any false, misleading, or otherwise inaccurate information disseminated, regardless of whether
such information was produced by GenAI.

         2. GenAI may produce biased or harmful content. Users shall carefully review any
content generated to ensure that unintended or undesirable instances of harmful or biased
content—including outdated stereotypes, inappropriate language, and illegal material—is
changed or removed.

          3. GenAI should not be used in situations that may impact rights or safety.

           4. GenAI should not be asked for definitive knowledge or decisions. GenAI can
"hallucinate," meaning it may fabricate events, claims, or evidence for such. Users may use
GenAI outputs to inform their decision-making process but ultimately the person remains the
final, responsible decision-maker. GenAI should not be used to produce incident reports.

    D.    Transparency

          1. The City shall be transparent about its use of GenAI with staff, residents, visitors,
                                                3
and users of City social media. It is not necessary to disclose every use of AI-generated work,
such as the use of AI-powered tools embedded in Microsoft Office products. However,
disclosure is necessary in the following instances:

              a.     Where Al-use could create confusion or influence important decisions,
                     such as when making employee hiring or promotion decisions.

              b.     When using GenAI product that has been unedited.

              c.     When using GenAI to produce images, audio, video, or any other
                     non-textual media.

          2. If a person uses Al-generated content in an official City capacity and disclosure
is necessary, the content should be clearly labeled with the following or substantially similar
language:

             This [Product] was created by or with the support of [Name of
             GenAI program] and has been edited and/or fact-checked by City
             staff to ensure its accuracy.

This allows the audience of the content to understand its authorship and be able to evaluate
the content accordingly.

E.     Intellectual Property

Content produced by GenAI tools may include copyrighted material due to training practices.
Users shall perform due diligence to ensure that no copyrighted material is published by the
City without proper attribution or without obtaining the proper rights.




                                              4
                                         City of Holladay
                                     HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                 COUNCIL STAFF MEMO
MEETING DATE: February 19th 2026
SUBJECT: Holladay Crossroads Master Plan Area (HCR SAMP) Summary of Events, Re- Development
Impediments.
SUBMITTED BY: Jonathan Teerlink


BACKGROUND:
In late 2016 The City of Holladay received a Transportation & Land Use grant from the Wasatch Front
Regional Council to study the efficiency, safety, land use and aesthetics of the Highland Drive/Van Winkle
intersection and surrounding 25 acres. The city hired consultants Bruce Parker, AICP and DR. Joe Perrin
(ATRANS Transportation Engineering) to perform this study. They were assisted by city staff in the
gathering of information and hosted four different open house events at city hall. The planning process
involved invitations to comment sent to property owners and businesses in both Holladay and Murray,
Murray City leaders and request for input from the WFRC, UTA, UDOT and Salt Lake County.

During final public meetings, city staff
and consultants presented computer
modeling scenarios simulating build
out of the area under various
conditions. The study was generally
well received, voicing a unified
opinion; stressing strong desire for
improvement to the area. The work
resulted in the adoption of the
Holladay Crossroads, Small Area
Masterplan (HCR-SAMP, 2017). By the
end of 2020 the planning commission
and council established the Holladay
Crossroads Zone boundaries and
adopted a hybrid of land use and
development regulations intended to
implement the vision and goals of the
master plan.
                                        City of Holladay
                                    HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                                   The HCR zone is considered a blend of the Royal
                                                   Holladay Hills development intensity with Holladay
                                                   Village design standards. Since its adoption, only one
                                                   property owner has taken advantage. In 2021 a
                                                   dilapidated retail building was razed in favor of an 83-
                                                   unit mixed use residential and commercial building.
                                                   This project is set to be completed in Summer of 2026.

HCR ZONE OVERVIEW:
It is intended that the Holladay Crossroads (HCR) Zone be an economically healthy, primary gateway,
mixed-use district within the City. The HCR Zone is currently the second most valuable economic center in
the City and sales revenues from businesses therein greatly contributes to the City’s budget. Future
development in this area must not only provide economic benefits to the property and business owners but
contribute to the City’s overall desirability and quality of life. Arguably positioned along the City’s most
prominent gateway, the HCR redevelopment area must create a sense of “arrival” to people entering
Holladay.

The HCR Zone offers a valuable opportunity for mixed-use and/or commercial development as reflected in the
Holladay adopted Crossroads Small Area Master Plan (SAMP). The SAMP recommends future development that
would result in a commercial district with a higher density residential component, or, mixed-use. The capacity of
the roadways in the area can support this type of future development and traffic growth can be accommodated
with the roadway enhancements proposed in the SAMP. This Zone anticipates the blending of older strip
commercial development with new, compatible mixed-use development through flexible yet consistent, building
design. HCR sanctioned land uses will be influenced by traffic volumes occurring in the area and design themes
will be overseen by the City’s Design Review Board (DRB). (§13.66.010)

The anticipated redevelopment potential of this area is significant. As the southern entrance to the city,
competition with Cottonwood Heights’ current retail, office and multi-family uses is considerable. By
creating sustainable development patterns, with high quality design characteristics, City staff is hopeful
future economic conditions will align to support redevelopment. Additional issues identified as
impediments to future development are but may not be limited to;

        •   Complicated traffic movements limit access and create inefficient and confusing patterns,
        •   Dated overhead power lines limit construction potential and right of way improvements,
        •   Open canal system conveying water on behalf of Salt Lake City border the master plan area,
        •   Billboards encumbering properties, severely limit development potential, and
        •   Multiple owners of both large and small parcels create complicated redevelopment
            partnership opportunities.
