                                      NOTICE OF A MEETING OF THE
                                    CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                         THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2026

                                   Holladay Council Chambers - 3330 S 1300 E

5:30 p.m.         Council Dinner – Council members will be eating dinner. No city business will be discussed.

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a Council meeting on
Thursday, July 16, at 6:00 pm. Members of the Council may participate electronically if needed. The Council
Chambers shall serve as the anchor location.
* Agenda items may be moved in order, sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or in this agenda. Interested parties are
encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

To provide a public comment or make a comment during any public hearing, may do so in the following ways:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@holladayut.gov


                                                         AGENDA

I.       Welcome – Mayor Fotheringham

II.      Public Comments
         Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda may provide their comment
         via email to the Council before 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting to scarlson@holladayut.gov with
         the subject line: Public Comment. Comments are subject to the Public Comment Policy set forth below

III.     Introduction of New Chief of Police for the Holladay Precinct

IV.      Consideration of the Appeal of Ron Hilton from the denial of a conditional use permit for property
         located at 2394 E Murray Holladay Road (No Public Comment)

V.       Public Hearing on Proposed Rezone at 4901 S Memory Lane from Residential Single Family (R-1-
         21) to Public (P) (future expansion of abutting cemetery)

VI.      Public Hearing on Proposed Text Amendment to Amend the Permitted Land Use Table of the SDMP
         to Allow Professional Services

VII.     Consideration of Resolution 2026-21 Adopting Policies Relating to the Maintenance and
         Repair of Public Sidewalks
VIII.   Consideration of Resolution 2026-22 Approving An Amendment to an Agreement with Salt
        Lake County Relating to Funding for the Development of Community Centered Health
        Programming

IX.     Consent Agenda
         a. Approval of Minutes – May 7, 14, 21, June 4 & 11, 2026

X.      City Manager Report – Gina

XI.     Council Report & District Issues
        a. Calendar
           Council Meetings – August 6 & 20, 2026

XII.    Recess to Work Meeting
        a. Discussion on Previous Public Hearings

        b. Spring Lane Final Bridging Document – MHTN

         c. Happy Healthy Holladay Update - Megan B

XIII.   Closed Session For the Purpose(s) Described in U.C.A. 52-4-204 and 205

XIV.    Adjourn

 Public Comment Polic & Procedure: During each regular Council Meeting there will be a Public Comment
 Time. The purpose of the Public Comment Time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council. Citizens requesting to
 address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and present it to the City Recorder. In general,
 the Chairman will allow an individual three minutes to address the Council. A spokesman, recognized as
 representing a group in attendance, may be allowed up to five minutes. Comments which cannot be made within
 these time limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting so
 they can be copied and distributed to the Council. At the conclusion of the Citizen Comment time, the Chairman
 may direct staff to assist the citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative
 department(s); or take no action. This policy also applies to all Public Hearings.


CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I certify that the above agenda notice was posted at Holladay City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah
Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,and the Holladay Library.

DATE POSTED: Thursday, July 9, 2026
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC, City Recorder
City of Holladay
                                          City of Holladay
                                      HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE: July 16th 2026
SUBJECT: Hilton Appeal – Appeal of Planning Commission Decision; “Casper Cottage, CUP” PZ#26-1-05
SUBMITTED BY: Jonathan Teerlink, CED Director


ACTION:
Quasi-Judicial; H.C.C. § 13.05.030(E), §13.08.040(I) and 13.101 establish the City Council as the appeal
authority for an appeal of a Planning Commission’s decision of a Conditional Use Permit (Historic
Modifications)

SUMMARY:
Property owners Ron and Melissa Hilton (Applicant) applied to the City for conditional permit (CUP)
approvals to enhance their Historic Property located at 2394 E Murray Holladay Road (Casper Cottage).
Under planning commission consideration were two separate matters, 1) historic site modifications and 2)
additional land uses (additional dwelling unit and antique store) for the Casper Cottage.

On April 21st, the Holladay Planning Commission, acting as the Land Use Authority in the matter, held a
public hearing to review and consider The Owner’s application. At the conclusion of presentations by staff
and the Applicant the public comment period was held. Public comments were submitted, both written and
in-person. After discussion amongst the commissioners, it was unanimously decided that the application
provided inefficient detail. Planning Commission Chair, Dennis Roach provided the Applicant with an
opportunity to withdraw his application. After some consideration the Applicant refused, the commission
therefore denied the application by unanimous decision.

BACKGROUND:
The city acknowledges the importance of historic places and provides a means by which a property owner
may maintain and sustain their historic site. Code provisions guide the intent to preserve sites, structures,
landmarks or buildings with special historical, architectural or aesthetic value. To accomplish this intent, the
planning commission may consider additional land uses and other site modifications. Considerations are via
the conditional use permit review process.

Acting in their role as the Land Use Authority on an administrative application, the planning commission
considered the following site enhancements at The Casper Cottage in accordance with §31.86 and
13.08.040 of the Holladay ordinance
                                         City of Holladay
                                     HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL



1) HISTORIC SITE MODIFICATIONS
Modifications are defined in §13.86.065 as:
       “Demolition or construction where a demolition or building permit is required. Modification
       also includes substantial changes to landscape, fencing, or appearance of a historic site.
       Modification does not include minor changes to landscape, fencing, or appearance of a
       historic site such as painting the historic site substantially the same color, changes to
       flowerbeds, or trimming.”

Upon receipt of the application, it was reviewed by the Technical Review Committee and determined that
proposed changes to the structure and site met the definition of Modification within §13.86.065.

The Planning Commission’s role is clarified, §13.86.050:
        “The Planning Commission may modify all yard, parking, landscaping, height, and other
        requirement of the zone in which the historic site is located, as necessary to fulfill the
        purposes of this chapter. In so doing, the nature and character of adjacent properties shall
        be considered to ensure that the health, safety, convenience, and general welfare will not
        be impaired. The Planning Commission may establish development criteria to control
        impacts associated with the heaviest permitted use in the base zone, including but not
        limited to: noise, glare, dust, or odor.”

2) ADDITIONAL USES
The planning commission may consider additional land uses that provide historic site sustainability.

13.86.060: ADDITIONAL USES FOR HISTORIC SITES:
       The planning commission may approve any of the following uses for a historic site in addition to the
       permitted and conditional uses allowed in the forestry or residential zone in which the site is located:
       Antique shop.                                              Nursing home.
       Art shop.                                                  Office.
       Boarding house.                                            Private educational institution.
       Child nursery.                                             Reception centers.
       Dental office or clinic.                                   Restaurant.
       Dwelling, single-, two-, three-, four- or                  Other uses of similar intensity to the
       multiple-family (in addition to a                          above.
        maximum of sixteen (16) units per acre).
                                          City of Holladay
                                      HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

APPEAL PROCEEDURES
In accordance with H.C.C. §13.08.040 and 13.101 the Applicant has filed an appeal of the Planning
Commission’s unanimous motion to deny the Historic Site modification application. The applicant has
clarified their appeal as only an appeal of the denial of site modifications. The decision to deny land uses is
not being appealed.

Appeal consideration is of the Planning Commission’s denial that the application was incomplete. The
minutes of this meeting provide record of that discussion and the findings that support the decision.

The City Council is the appeal body of a Planning Commission’s decision determining the outcome of a
Conditional Use Permit (Historic Modifications). As the appeal body, the City Council’s review provisions are
provided by ordinance; §13.09.030 and .040

RECOMMENDATION:
As a final determination of the appeal body shall be based on the record, the council is recommended to
review the staff report and planning commission recommendations. Minutes of the commission’s April 21st
meeting and all packet information from that meeting are included in this report as findings of fact.

ATTACHMENTS:
Staff Report
Approved Meeting Minutes – April 21st 2026
Public Comments
Planning Commission Packet, includes the Applicant’s original application materials

FISCAL IMPACT:
None
PLANNING COMMISSION | Items #2 and #3

Date: April 21st, 2026
Request: "Casper Cottage" Historical Site Modifications to the Structure and Uses
Address: 2394 East Murray Holladay Rd.
Applicant: Ron Hilton
File No: 26-1-05
Planner: Jonathan Teerlink


GOVERNING ORDINANCES:
13.03.020         CONDITIONAL USE- SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
13.08.040         CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REVIEW/APPROVAL STANDARDS
13.86             HISTORIC PRESERVATION


REQUIRED PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION: Administrative

Public hearing required. PC shall make a motion of either, denial, approval or to continue. All
motions require findings which support the decision. As directed by ordinance, applications shall
be approved if the Land Use Authority finds Substantial Evidence of compliance with applicable
approval standards and requirements. Holladay Ord. 13.08.040

SUMMARY:

Having recently received historic designation for the building located at 2394 South Murray
Holladay Rd, the property owner, Ron Hilton is seeking two conditional use approvals: 1) historic
site modifications and 2) additional land use for the “Casper Cottage”.

“Casper Cottage” was designated by the City Council as having historical significance. Specifically,
having been built in 1898, as a single-story cross-wing type cottage which was prevalent in late
1800s to early 1900s. Its front door, off the side of the main structure, features a covered porch,
and a façade which presents subtle Victorian Eclectic features (brick “eyebrow” over front
window). The applicant provided the history of Duncan Spears Casper as a core pioneer presence
to the area through the ownership of property within historic Holladay and establishing himself
as an individual who, “…was part of the original LDS migration to Utah, and Holladay in
Particular.”

The City of Holladay Code §13.86 addresses Historic Preservation within the City. This section of
code designates sites and applies standards for maintenance of and allows for additional uses
intended to maintain historic integrity of the property as originally designated.



"Casper Cottage" Historical Site Modifications and Uses
                                                                                         Page 1 of 5
The city acknowledges the importance of historic places and provides a sustainable means by
which a property owner may maintain their historic site. Provisions guide the strict intent to
preserve sites, structures, landmarks or buildings with special historical, architectural or aesthetic
value. To accomplish this purpose, the planning commission may approve conditional permits for
additional land uses and all modifications to historical sites. A conditional use permit is required
for any modifications relating to the site or structure and for any additional uses. This application
requires review as two separate conditional use approvals/permits;


1) HISTORIC SITE MODIFICATIONS

Modifications are defined in §13.86.065 as:
        “Demolition or construction where a demolition or building permit is required. Modification also
        includes substantial changes to landscape, fencing, or appearance of a historic site. Modification
        does not include minor changes to landscape, fencing, or appearance of a historic site such as
        painting the historic site substantially the same color, changes to flowerbeds, or trimming.”

Upon receipt of the application, it was reviewed by the Technical Review Committee and
determined that the changes to the structure and site met the definition of modification within
§13.86.065 and hereby requires review by the Planning Commission for a Conditional Use Permit.

The Planning Commission’s role is clarified, §13.86.050:

        “The Planning Commission may modify all yard, parking, landscaping, height, and other
        requirement of the zone in which the historic site is located, as necessary to fulfill the purposes of
        this chapter. In so doing, the nature and character of adjacent properties shall be considered to
        ensure that the health, safety, convenience, and general welfare will not be impaired. The Planning
        Commission may establish development criteria to control impacts associated with the heaviest
        permitted use in the base zone, including but not limited to: noise, glare, dust, or odor.”

2) ADDITIONAL USES

The planning commission may consider additional land uses that provide historic site sustainability.

13.86.060: ADDITIONAL USES FOR HISTORIC SITES:

       A. Residential And Forestry Zones: The planning commission may approve any of the following uses
       for a historic site in addition to the permitted and conditional uses allowed in the forestry or
       residential zone in which the site is located:

              Antique shop.
              Art shop.
              Boarding house.
              Child nursery.
              Dental office or clinic.
              Dwelling, single-, two-, three-, four- or multiple-family (in addition to a maximum of sixteen

"Casper Cottage" Historical Site Modifications and Uses
                                                                                                 Page 2 of 5
              (16) units per acre).
              Nursing home.
              Office.
              Private educational institution.
              Reception centers.
              Restaurant.
              Other uses of similar intensity to the above.

The applicant is seeking approval for use of the property as an antiques shop, and an additional
new residential dwelling behind the existing home.

Upon receipt of the application, it was reviewed by the Technical Review Committee and
determined that the uses proposed by the applicant are within the allowed additional uses within
§13.86.060, requiring review by the Planning Commission for a Conditional Use Permit.

APPLICANT / PROPERTY SUMMARY:

Applicant and owner, Ron Hilton, is proposing architectural modifications to the existing structure
with no site modifications. In addition, a proposal for the use of the existing home as an antiques
store in addition to the construction of a new residential dwelling unit. These modifications are
summarized in the material submitted by the applicant, following this report.

GENERAL PLAN GUIDANCE:

General Plan link

“Historic preservation plays a vital role in maintaining the unique character and identity of
Holladay, especially as the City faces increasing pressure to grow and accommodate new
development. Historic elements pepper the Holladay landscape;…These include residences once
owned by prominent local figures, cherished businesses, unique architectural landmarks, and
public works”. “Protecting these historic assets amid growth is a delicate balance, but one that is
key to sustaining the identity, charm, and continuity that residents and visitors value in Holladay”.

                                                                                                Pg.53

District Character: Goals, Policies and Actions (pg 54)
  DC Policy 1.2: Preserve historic resources throughout Holladay


STANDARDS OF CONSIDERATION, FOR OR AGAINST:

As proposed, historic site modifications and uses in Holladay are reviewed in context of
Conditional Use Standards (see H.C.C. § 13.08.040.F), as the planning commission may deny an
application, any denial requires careful and specific reasons(ing) to support the commission’s
position upon a judicial review.




"Casper Cottage" Historical Site Modifications and Uses
                                                                                          Page 3 of 5
The State of Utah has created statutes within Utah’s state code that govern conditional uses
(Section §10-20-505), including:

         •   “A municipality may adopt a land use ordinance that includes conditional uses and
             provisions for conditional uses that require compliance with objective standards set
             forth in an applicable ordinance”.
         •   “A municipality may not impose a requirement or standard on a conditional use that
             conflicts with a provision of this chapter or other state or federal law.
         •    “A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are
             proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
             effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards”
         •   “The requirement described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to reasonably mitigate anticipated
             detrimental effects of the proposed conditional use does not require elimination of
             the detrimental effects.” (§10-20-506(2)(a)(ii))

Review by the Planning Commission and the holding of a public hearing are intended to evaluate
potential impacts unique to the site and place reasonable conditions to mitigate specific impacts.
Any conditions applied must be reasonable, address the identified effect, and refer to the
applicable standards of conditional uses within the City’s code. As per 13.08.040 (F2), a
Conditional Use should NOT:

    1.   Contribute to a detrimental concentration of existing nonconforming or conditional uses
         substantially like the use proposed within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the exterior boundary
         of the subject property.
    2.   Results in loss of privacy, objectionable views of large parking or storage areas; or views
         or sounds of loading and unloading areas; and
    3.   Encroach on or cause erosion of the bank of a river or stream, or direct runoff into a river
         or stream without approval by the appropriate storm water authority.

TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE ANALYSIS AND RECOMMENDATION:

Technical Review Committee (TRC) finds that the application for a conditional use permit for both
modifications to the historic structure, along with proposals for additional uses for antiques store
and the construction of a new residential dwelling unit to a site listed on the Holladay Historic
ready for review by the Planning Commission.

The TRC recommends the PC to open the required public hearing and review the applicant’s
narrative. The commission should also moderate discussion with the applicant on the merits of
preserving Casper Cottage as a designated in alignment with the goals and policies of the Historic
Preservation ordinance.




"Casper Cottage" Historical Site Modifications and Uses
                                                                                         Page 4 of 5
Staff Findings:
         1. In review of the applicant’s narrative, TRC finds lack of details connecting how the
             proposed uses intend to preserving the site as a historic pioneer home.
         2. Apart from an exhibit showing the proposed modification to the front façade, no
             other details are provided which indicate historical materials to be used, window
             systems proposed or other examples of how the modifications related to examples of
             period architecture.
         3. No site plan details are provided. Landscaping, fencing, lighting, etc. TRC assumes no
             changes proposed to the existing conditions.
         4. Proposed uses –
                 a. The applicant’s narrative proposes an additional home, but no details are
                     provided supporting how an additional home sustains the historic pioneer
                     home. The TRC finds that two vacant lots behind this home currently exist
                     and are owned by the applicant.
                 b. The narrative also proposed the home be converted to an antique store. TRC
                     would recommend the commission discover operation hours signage and
                     detail parking arrangements made with abutting owners.
                 c. All remaining content of the narrative relating to the City of Holladay taking
                     over the location as park space and/or historical museum is not the preview
                     of the Planning Commission and subject to City Council considerations. The
                     applicant is directed to present this aspect of the request to the City
                     Manager.

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission continue this item to a work meeting.

SUGGESTED MOTION:

“I ________ motion the Holladay Planning Commission move to ___________ (APPROVE, DENY,
CONTINUE) the application for a Conditional Use Permit for a Historic Site Modification for the
“Casper Cottage”, designated as a historic site by section 13.86.020 of the City of Holladay code,
located at 4660 S. Hulton Court.”




"Casper Cottage" Historical Site Modifications and Uses
                                                                                        Page 5 of 5
                              NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay Planning Commission will hold a public
hearing on Tuesday, the 21st day of April 2026, as close to 6:00 P.M. as possible. The
purpose of the hearing is to open a comment period while the commission considers conditional
use applications for 1) the modification of a designated historic site and 2) the use of a designated
historic site as an antique shop and one residential dwelling unit. The home is known as the
Casper Cottage, located at 2394 E. Murray Holladay Road, Holladay, Utah.

The request is to evaluate the use of the property as both an antiques shop and a residence in
accordance with standards for historic sites in Chapter §13.86 of the City of Holladay Municipal
Code and the approval standards for a conditional use permit outlined in Chapter §13.08.040 of
the City of Holladay Municipal Code.

The packet with information regarding this application will be available for public inspection on
the City’s website www.holladayut.gov and at the Community Development Dept. during normal
business hours three days prior to the scheduled meeting.
Please note, this meeting will be held at City of Holladay’s temporary location, 3300 East
1300 South, Millcreek Utah. No meetings will be held at 4580 S 2300 East.

The public can remotely watch the Live Stream of the meeting. To provide a public comment or
to comment on any public hearing, you have the following options:
1. In-person attendance at temporary City Hall location 3300 S. 1300 E. or
2. Email your comments by 5:00 PM on the date of the meeting to cmarsh@holladayut.gov or
call 801527-3890.




CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the
above agenda notice was posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov the
Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn, and was emailed to the Salt Lake
Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

DATE POSTED: [ date ]
    PROPOSED ADDITIONAL USES OF THE HISTORIC CASPER COTTAGE PROPERTY



Casper Cottage is designated as an historic site in Section 13.86.020 of the Holladay Code.
The following additional uses are proposed pursuant to Section 13.86.060:

   1) Antique Shop in the existing historic structure on Lot 2A.
            Located within the walkable area surrounding Holladay Village where the
            sidewalk ends, the shop is intended to serve limited foot traffic only. There
            will be no formal advertising, unless the City chooses to highlight Casper
            Cottage as part of the Holladay Village experience, such as including it in the
            historical Walking Tour. If this use is approved, a building permit application
            to restore and remodel the structure in accordance with historic preservation
            standards will be submitted in due course for review and approval.

   2) Additional single-family dwelling unit, separately owned from all abutting lots (6
      units/acre).
             This 938 sq ft historic cottage sits at the front of an almost 12K sq ft parcel
             along Murray Holladay Road – Lot 2A in the Hulton Park subdivision. We
             propose to build a single-family detached home on the rear portion of this
             lot, consistent with the 6 units/acre density of the subdivision as a whole.
             Like the rest of the subdivision, it will be of a traditional design that is meant
             to match the general character of Casper Cottage and the other small homes
             of similar vintage in this historic bungalow district of Holladay. As part of the
             approval, a restriction on Lot 2A against separate ownership from abutting
             lots must be waived. If this use is approved, a building permit application
             including a site plan will be submitted in due course for review and approval.

The foregoing summarizes what is currently proposed for approval within the scope of the
present conditional use application. However, to provide a broader context it may be
helpful to understand the background of and potential future opportunities for Hulton Park.

Hulton Park straddles the boundary between the Medium Density District surrounding
Holladay Village and the Low Density District to the east. Our aim all along has been to
provide a transitional buffer in both density and character between these very different
districts on either side. Also part of our vision from the very start was to provide some open
green space as a public amenity, although that is only actually a requirement in Holladay
Village proper. Historic preservation became a goal later on, as we became more aware of
the historical significance of our home and the others in the immediate area, and I began
serving as a volunteer on the Holladay Historical Commission.

In a nutshell, what we have in mind is to offer the property to the City for a Holladay
Historical Museum within a public park, to house and display the artifacts that the City
currently has in storage, as a supplement to the outdoor Holladay History Walk that has
just been completed. I’ve talked to some of the neighbors about the idea, who seem
favorable to it so far. In terms of the value to the community, I have been visiting the
historical museums of other nearby cities. Here is the one in Sandy:
The building belongs to the City of Sandy with a small dedicated parking lot, and is leased
to a private historic association, funded by a perpetual foundation, public grants such as
ZAP, and other donations. As you can see, the building itself is historic. It was built in 1890,
the same year as the very similar Nielsen Store was built in Holladay. They even used the
second story as a dance floor, the same as in Holladay.

Here is the Murray historical museum:




It just opened last May, right next to the new Murray City Hall building with a shared parking
lot, and is fully funded by the city. It is the largest of the ones I visited, with indoor displays
similar to Holladay’s outdoor walk plus many artifacts. It was built as an annex to a historic
mansion, which is beautifully furnished with many historic items, and even a continuously
running old silent film that was produced in Sandy, with a story line based on local
landmarks – maybe the first motion picture in Utah?! This is definitely the “Cadillac” of
municipal history museums near Holladay.

Lastly, here is the history museum in Midvale:
This one is in a small community center that shares parking with the adjacent city park, and
is the most modest of the three. So there are museums of all shapes and sizes, all of which
appear to be thriving.

The Casper Cottage in Holladay would definitely be toward the smaller end of the spectrum
(somewhere between Sandy and Midvale) but should be more than large enough to house
the artifacts that are currently being held in a closet-sized rented storage unit. It is about
the same size as the Casto Home, but has the advantage of being a functional building with
electricity, water, heating and A/C. The nearest parking is just the limited street parking on
Murray Holladay Road, but since it is so centrally located next to Holladay Village, it could
be added to the Walking Tour, with some pedestrian signage at the main intersection to
attract visitors. The neighbors would be opposed to additional parking anyway.

In terms of the cost, the Museum would share the premises with the proposed antique
shop. People who are interested enough to come to a historical museum would provide a
ready clientele for such a business. It would have low impact on the neighborhood, serving
mostly a small walk-in clientele on an opportunistic basis with little or no advertising. I
spoke with the Capitol City Antique Mall in Salt Lake City about their business. They charge
their tenants $4.50/sq ft per month, plus a 17% commission on sales. They are open all day
every day and have been doing a thriving business for decades. They have a long waiting list
of would-be antique dealers, because the current tenants rarely want to give up their
precious retail space. So the bottom line is that there would be plenty of demand for such
space in Holladay. The city already leases space in Holladay Village to the private sector, so
there is ample precedent for it.

If Casper Cottage were to be successful as a combination of public museum and private
business, that might also help to justify the City making a further investment in the Casto
Home for a similar purpose, allowing it to make money instead of take money as is
currently the case. A good business at that location might be an old-timey soda fountain,
given all of the families, youth, and others who frequent City Hall Park for athletics, the
playground, the skate park, and recreation in general. Utahns love their “dirty” sodas!

As potential future uses, the park and museum would be compatible with and in addition
to the uses proposed in this application. If the park were only large enough to be the site of
the museum, then there would still be room for the additional dwelling unit. Alternatively,
the entire parcel could be used for a neighborhood park, similar to the other pocket parks
around the City. In that case, we would ask the City to bear the cost of extending the private
lane and utilities to service the remaining lots behind the park and to maintain it as a public
road going forward, to help offset the loss of the additional dwelling unit.

Hopefully the broader perspective that I’ve tried to provide here is helpful as context for the
present application. But the application stands on its own, and we respectfully request that
it be approved on its own merits, to achieve the objectives of the recently enacted historic
preservation ordinance. I give kudos to the City for taking a “carrot” rather than a “stick”
approach to historic preservation, protecting private property rights and recognizing the
economic challenges involved in preserving and maintaining our physical legacy as a City.
                      EXHIBIT : PC MINUTES

                                            APPROVED

                          MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                           PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                   Tuesday, April 21, 2026
                                          6:00 PM
                               Temporary City Council Chambers
                                    3330 South 1300 East
                                       Millcreek, Utah

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                           City Staff:

Dennis Roach, Chair                                    Carrie Marsh, City Planner
Jill Fonte                                             Jonathan Teerlink, Community and Economic
Karianne Prince                                               Development Director
Angela Gong                                            Brad Christopherson, City Attorney
Brian Berndt

WORK SESSION
Chair Dennis Roach called the Work Session to order at 5:45 p.m. He noted that all
Commissioners are present with the exception of Commissioner Paul Cunningham and
Commissioner Patrick Tripeny. There are four Public Hearing items on the Regular Meeting
agenda. Two of the Public Hearing items relate to the same property, which is “Casper Cottage.”

City Planner, Carrie Marsh, shared information about “The Woods Lot 3,” item on the agenda.
She reported that this is a Planned Unit Development (“PUD”) that has been seen before, but that
was for Lot 2. In this case, the PUD Amendment application is for Lot 3. In the Meeting Materials
Packet, there is an exhibit that shows how the building area is being shifted. The applicant has
provided a Boundary Survey to show the existing building area on Lot 3. In addition, the applicant
has provided a Preliminary Plat. She explained that there is a building area boundary change
requested by the applicant to facilitate an addition on the south side of the home. The new building
area will not impact the existing fire turnaround on the site or the storm water retention on the site.

Chair Roach believed the applicant wants to move the buildable area to the other side of the home.
Ms. Marsh confirmed this and reviewed a map of the area. The modification takes the 2,192 square
feet that was within the allowed building area and shifts it to a different location on the site to
create a new buildable area. Chair Roach asked if there would still be compliance with the
setbacks, which was confirmed. Ms. Marsh reported that the same rear setback will be maintained.
The building area will move closer to Lot 4. The applicant will be present at the Regular Meeting,
so it is possible to ask for additional information about the setbacks and distances at that time.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 04/21/2026

                                                  1
Chair Roach asked if there are existing structures on Lot 2 or Lot 4. Ms. Marsh confirmed that
there are and shared an image for reference. If the PUD Amendment is approved, the buildable
area will be further away from the structure on Lot 2, but it will be closer to the structure on Lot 4.
Chair Roach asked if the Technical Review Committee (“TRC”) has looked over this application.
Ms. Marsh confirmed that the TRC has reviewed this, and it checks all of the boxes.

Commissioner Prince noted that the Planning Commission rarely addresses properties that are
behind gates. She wanted to know what the best solution is when a property that the Planning
Commission needs to discuss is behind a locked gate and cannot be viewed ahead of the meeting.
Community and Economic Development Director, Jonathan Teerlink, reported that it is possible
for Commissioners to reach out to the Planner, who can then contact the owner for the access code.

Mr. Teerlink reported that the second and third items on the Regular Meeting agenda are for
“Casper Cottage.” He explained that these items represent historic site preservation efforts by the
property owner. The reason there are two items on the agenda is because the request is twofold.
Mr. Teerlink reminded the Commission that a recommendation was forwarded to the City Council
to make this site historic, and the City Council approved that recommendation. The site is now on
the Historic Site Designation List for the City of Holladay. Designated properties have allowances
that other properties in the City do not, because the intention is to encourage preservation.

Mr. Teerlink explained that the additional allowances might result in modifications to the historic
property. For example, there could be modifications made to the façade or roof, there could be an
addition put on, or the Site Plan could change. In those instances, there is a Conditional Use Permit
(“CUP”) required from the Planning Commission. The proposal that has been brought forward in
this case is a Historic Site Modification for some changes to the façade of the building, as well as
additional land uses on the property. He clarified that these items can be considered separately.
The additional land uses proposed include an antique shop and a secondary residential unit. The
Commission will need to consider how the proposed uses will maintain the historic pioneer home.

There are still a lot of questions that need to be answered when it comes to the “Casper Cottage”
applications, so the Staff recommendation is for there to be continued discussions. During the
Regular Meeting, the applicant can answer Commissioner questions. Chair Roach believed the
Commission is being asked to determine whether the applicant is submitting a request that will
preserve the small home. Mr. Teerlink confirmed this and reiterated that there can be discussions
with the applicant. Commissioner Prince mentioned the PUD that came before the Planning
Commission previously, which included the cottage. At that time, there was discussion about this
location as a residence. Mr. Teerlink reported that the PUD Plat has six lots within it and where
this house is located, it is designated as the common area of the plat. The PUD was for six units
in the subdivision, with four units on the north side and two units located on the south side.

Chair Roach asked if there is any preservation afforded to the house due to the designation from
the City. Mr. Teerlink explained that if the property owner decided to tear it down and put in
something else, that would be allowed. The intention is to encourage preservation when possible.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 04/21/2026

                                                  2
Chair Roach wanted to know if the applicant could still tear down the home even if these
applications were approved. Mr. Teerlink confirmed this. There is nothing that ensures long-term
preservation. He added that nothing in the Historic Preservation Ordinance removes the right of a
property owner to further develop the property as they see fit. Commissioner Prince noted that
this is the common area for the PUD. She asked if it would be possible to make this a buildable
lot. Mr. Teerlink explained that there would need to be a PUD Amendment brought forward.

The last Public Hearing item on the Regular Meeting agenda is the Final Plan for “Royal Holladay
Hills, Block A and C.” Chair Roach explained that this review has to do with the parking lot-
related items, which were discussed at the last Planning Commission Meeting. Mr. Teerlink
reported that the Planning Commission asked for the landscaping and architecture to come back
for approval. Staff has reviewed what has been proposed by the applicant. The Landscaping Plan
in the Meeting Materials Packet complies with the ordinance. The building designs are better than
before, but the applicant team will review the proposal in more detail during the meeting.

CONVENE REGULAR MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
Chair Roach called the Regular Meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. All members of the Commission
are present with the exception of Commissioner Cunningham and Commissioner Tripeny. There
are four Public Hearing items on the Regular Meeting agenda. He clarified that Item 2 and Item 3
are located at 2394 East Murray Holladay Road rather than 4910 South Holladay Boulevard. The
Opening Statement was read aloud by Commissioner Jill Fonte for the benefit of those present.

PUBLIC HEARING

1.     “The Woods Lot 3” - PUD Amendment - 6325 South 2710 East (R-1-43 Zone). Review
       and Consideration of a Proposal for an Amendment to The Woods Planned Unit
       Development. The Proposal is to Modify the Areas and Boundaries Previously
       Approved for the Building Footprint and Open Space Area Designations only within
       Lot 3 of The Woods Planned Unit Development. Review Conducted According to
       Regulatory Provisions of Holladay Ordinance §13.78.130(D). File #04-01-12-3.
Ms. Marsh presented the Staff Report and explained that this is a PUD Amendment for “The
Woods Lot 3,” which is located at 6325 South 2710 East. The PUD was originally approved in
2004, but there have been amendments since then on other lots within the PUD. She reported that
the amendment in this case is for Lot 3, which is the second lot from the south end of the PUD.

The applicant wants to move a previously approved building area. The proposal is to move it from
the north side of the existing structure to the south side of the existing structure. There would be
a slightly different configuration, but the same total square footage. This will preserve landscaping
on the north side of the structure, but some landscaping on the south side will be impacted.

The proposed amendment will bring a portion of the structure that is currently outside of the
building area into the building area. Ms. Marsh reported that the setbacks on the south side will
be impacted by the PUD Amendment, but she does not know how far back the existing house is
on the south property line. However, it is estimated that the new building envelope will be
modified to be approximately 35 feet from the property line. The applicant provided a summary


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 04/21/2026

                                                 3
       7.      Ordinance requires any removed trees to be replaced with tree(s) that will provide
               an equivalent tree canopy at maturity.

The applicant must follow all of the conditions suggested by the Technical Review Committee.
Commissioner Berndt seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Fonte-Yes;
Commissioner Prince-Yes; Commissioner Gong-Yes; Commissioner Berndt-Yes; Chair Roach-
Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

Following the Subdivision Amendment, the Commission considered the PUD CUP Amendment.

Commissioner Prince moved to APPROVE the Amendment to the Conditional Use Permit
related to the Site Plan of Lot 3 of “The Woods” Planned Unit Development, a four-lot
residential development within the R-1-43 Zone, located at 6325 South 2710 East. This is based
on the following findings:

       1.      An equivalent area of building space is being exchanged.

       2.      The changes to the buildable area are outside of all utility and common area
               easements.

       3.      The changes to the buildable area do not affect the required fire turnaround.

       4.      More trees are being preserved than removed.

       5.      Ordinance requires any removed trees to be replaced with tree(s) that will provide
               an equivalent tree canopy at maturity.

The applicant must follow all of the conditions suggested by the Technical Review Committee.
Commissioner Fonte seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Fonte-Yes;
Commissioner Prince-Yes; Commissioner Gong-Yes; Commissioner Berndt-Yes; Chair Roach-
Yes. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

2.      “Casper Cottage” – Historic Site Conditional Land Use Permit – 2394 East Murray
        Holladay Road (R-1-10) Review and Consideration of a Request by the Property
        Owner for Modifications to a Historic Site. Item Reviewed as Conditional Use as per
        Provisions Stated in Holladay Ordinance §13.86.030. File #26-01-05.
Mr. Teerlink presented the Staff Report and explained that there are two items related to “Casper
Cottage,” which is located at 2394 East Murray Holladay Road. He explained that Items 2 and 3
on the Regular Meeting agenda involve the same property. The reason these are separated out into
different items is because the first relates to a modification to an existing historic use. The
applicant is proposing some changes to the façade and roofline of the property. As for the second
item, there are some additional land uses requested at the site. Mr. Teerlink reported that, in order
to encourage historic preservation, certain land uses are allowed to be granted at historic properties.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 04/21/2026

                                                  5
The list of uses is included in the Meeting Materials Packet, and the applicant has selected two
from the list. The proposed uses are an antique shop and an additional dwelling unit.

Staff has reviewed both applications based on the historic preservation goals. Mr. Teerlink does
not believe there will need to be two separate hearings held. It is possible to hold a Public Hearing
for Item 2 and Item 3 at the same time, but the Planning Commission can make that decision.

Mr. Teerlink discussed the Historic Site Modification application. He explained that the applicant
has not proposed any changes to the site as far as landscaping or parking areas, but there is a
modification proposed to the façade and the roofline. There was an assessment of the property
when it was designated historic, and it was found to be a cross-wing style of the early 1900s.
Mr. Teerlink stated that the current application is missing some materials and details about the
modification, so he would be interested in having outstanding questions posed by the Commission.

In addition to the modification request, there is a request to have a retail use at the site, which
would be an antique shop. There is also a request to have a residential use that is additional to
what the structure currently provides. Mr. Teerlink noted that there are some museum examples
included in the narrative. However, what is considered during the review process is how the
additional land uses would support historic preservation. It would be beneficial for the
Commission to moderate a discussion and determine how the additional land uses will support
“Casper Cottage” as a historic pioneer home. He reiterated that there are still unknown details.

Commissioner Brian Berndt asked if there is an expectation for a particular architectural style.
Mr. Teerlink stated that there should be some examples of early 1900s architecture, but he has not
seen those details. Commissioner Berndt is not sure that the Planning Commission can make a
decision about the applications without all of the necessary information. It seems more specificity
needs to be provided. Commissioner Fonte noted that when similar projects were considered in
the past, there was more detail about the business side of the proposal. For example, information
about parking, traffic, and lighting. This application does not seem to include that information.

Commissioner Berndt asked if the parking will be located off-site. Mr. Teerlink assumed so, as
there is a section in the narrative that talks about using off-site parking. Chair Roach understands
that the historic designation provides some flexibility, but asked if there is precedent in the
community where there is a business located inside of a historic property that is in a PUD.
Mr. Teerlink denied this. He reminded the Commission that there was a previous application
where a CUP was granted for an interior design space, but that was in a subdivision rather than a
PUD.

The applicant, Ron Hilton, introduced himself to the Planning Commission and explained that he
lives directly across the street from the subject property and within the PUD. He shared
information about the Historic Site Modification. The existing and proposed façade details were
shared. The original building was a two-room cottage. It was not a cross-wing style when it was
built in 1898. There were two additions made that shifted it to the cross-wing style. There is some
uncertainty about when the additions were made, but those likely occurred before 1920. He shared
additional information about the materials used in the original construction and in the additions.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 04/21/2026

                                                 6
Mr. Hilton reviewed some of the proposed modifications, including restoration of the original
window size and style. He noted that the additions put on this home in the early 1900s have a
different exterior finish and the proposal is for it to be all brick. There is also a desire to restore
the porch area. The work on the windows and porch will restore the home to its original look.

Mr. Hilton shared background information about the Casper family and noted that certain decisions
might have been made because of costs. He noted that the family took out a mortgage on the
property right after the building was done. There was also a family dispute about selling off other
parts of the property. It was a larger property at the time, but part of it was sold to another family.
He noted that the Casper family might have done more of a full cross-wing design if there were
resources available at the time, so the intention is to honor that with the proposed modifications.

Chair Roach asked if there were images of the back of the property included in the Meeting
Materials Packet, which was denied. Mr. Hilton explained that the back of the main two-room
cottage is brick. There is a window, and it is possible to see where there used to be a door that was
bricked over. He clarified that there is no intention to restore the door. Chair Roach asked about
the porch. Mr. Hilton reported that the brick wall on the west side of the porch is mostly gone, as
the porch became a foyer into the house. The rest of the brick wall on the west side is still there,
but it is now an interior wall. Commissioner Prince wanted to better understand what is existing
and what is new on the plans that have been provided. There was discussion about what currently
exists. Commissioner Prince stated that it is difficult to visualize what exists without a submitted
diagram.

Chair Roach wanted to know when the porch was added to the property. Mr. Hilton believed the
porch was original. Steven Cornell from Utah Valley University (“UVU”) looked at the property
and made note of the porch that was originally on the site. Chair Roach asked when the livable
space foyer that exists currently was converted from a porch to the livable space. Mr. Hilton was
not certain, but it is estimated that it occurred in the 1920s. The Casper family owned the home
until 1916. In a photograph from the 1930s, it is possible to see that the conversion had occurred.

Mr. Hilton next discussed the Additional Uses proposed for the site. He addressed the question
posed earlier, which was how the proposed uses enhance historic preservation. The request is for
an antique shop use and an additional residential use, but there have also been discussions with the
City about donating the property so it can be used as a public history museum, as the City of
Holladay does not currently have a history museum. Mr. Hilton explained that the antique shop is
meant to be ancillary to the museum. The Historical Commission thought that would be a good
idea, because the merchant running the antique shop would be on site and could manage the
museum.

There has been some research conducted about the demand for antique shops. Mr. Hilton reported
that he visited the Capital City Antique Mall and spoke to the owner. This mall subleases space
to dealers, and there is a long wait list, because so many people want space to sell their antiques.
He does not believe it will be difficult to find someone who would like to use the subject property.
It was reiterated that the antique shop will not be the primary use, as the goal is to have a museum.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 04/21/2026

                                                  7
Chair Roach asked if the proposal is to have an accessory building adjacent to the antique shop
and museum. Mr. Hilton reported that the lot itself is quite large and the house takes up less than
a third of the property. It is possible to build a residence behind this as part of the PUD. Chair
Roach believed this is considered a common area, which was denied. Mr. Hilton clarified that this
lot is Lot 2A and it is essentially part of Lot 2. It is possible to put a common space easement
there, but it could also be used as a separate lot. He stated that the proposal is for it to be separate.
As for how this will assist with historic preservation, the property is in an area with a lot of historic
bungalows. The intention is to be compatible and preserve the same look with the PUD. The goal
is to match the same style that is in the area, in terms of size and overall character. The reason
there is a desire to have an additional unit is so there can be a bungalow-style home.

Mr. Hilton reported that this property has a high-density and multi-family area on one side and
low-density residential on the other. The intention is to provide a transitional buffer between the
high-density and multi-family on one side and the low-density residential on the other. These
homes will have the character of single-family detached houses, but there will be medium density.

Chair Roach opened the public hearing.

Kim Duffy                                           . She clarified that her comments are being
provided as a resident and not in any official capacity. Ms. Duffy read comments on behalf of
Martha Bradley, who is a Professor at the University of Utah School of Architecture, and was
unable to attend the Planning Commission Meeting. All comments were agreed on by Ms. Duffy
and Ms. Bradley. While there was support for the “Casper Cottage” nomination for the Historic
Site Designation List, there is opposition to the current proposal, which includes the proposed
addition. The addition does not meet the nationally accepted definitions of a compatible addition.

Ms. Duffy read language about compatible additions. It stated that compatible additions to historic
buildings must be subordinate to the original structure, using a differentiation and compatibility
approach. New additions should be smaller in scale, set back from the primary façade, and utilize
materials that echo, but do not perfectly replicate the original. Key principles include maintaining
historic integrity, ensuring reversibility, and using a connector to separate the new from the old.

While Ms. Duffy and Ms. Bradley respect the willingness of the applicant to save a historic site, it
is believed that the proposed addition goes above and beyond the acceptable definition of a
compatible addition. The roofline of the addition, which matches the original structure, suggests
the addition is original, which it is not. In addition, the scale is larger than the original structure
and is not set back from the primary façade. The Commission was asked to further consider
compatibility.

Roger Reese                                             . He reported that at one point, there was
going to be a townhome on the property. In another iteration, there was going to be a clubhouse.
Mr. Reese read from the applicant narrative, which stated that the intention is to provide a
transitional buffer in both density and character between the different districts on either side. It



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 04/21/2026

                                                   8
also states that the vision is to provide some open green space as a public amenity. He is not sure
that it is appropriate for a property owner to make a decision about the creation of a buffer.

Mr. Reese reported that there is a 938-square-foot building that is proposed to be a museum and
an antique shop. The applicant narrative states that the use would have a low impact on the
neighborhood with a walk-in clientele. He pointed out that there is an inconsistency between that
statement and the earlier statement made about the popularity of antique shop businesses.
Mr. Reese read the additional language submitted by the applicant. He believed the alternative
suggestion for a park sounds like the private property owner wants to shift certain expenses to the
City. He does not see the viability of the project and does not feel it will enhance the neighborhood.

Clark Richards                                                      d he is not supportive of the
proposal by Mr. Hilton. Mr. Richards believes the applicant wants to build more than the R-1-10
Zone allows. He also has concerns about the proposed uses, because he does not believe an antique
shop fits in with the character of the neighborhood. There are concerns about the amount of
parking available. Mr. Richards does not think the proposal is beneficial to the residents of the
City of Holladay. He pointed out that businesses have deliveries, and it will be difficult for
delivery trucks to navigate the area. There are parking concerns, traffic concerns, and overall
safety concerns.

Alicia Reese                                               and asked to add to some of the comments
that have been made. She shared information about the current parking availability. If there was
a business in the area, it would likely result in additional hazards. There would need to be a lot of
improvements made if the City chose to take on the responsibility mentioned by Mr. Hilton in the
submitted documents. Ms. Reese noted that the applicant has tried to use this property in many
different ways, so she is uncertain that the intention is to maintain and preserve the property.

Denise Cecil                                                             . She lives in the smaller
duplexes to the west of the property. She appreciates the historic value of the house and has been
inside of it in the past. However, she wants to reiterate the concerns that have been expressed
about parking in the area, because there are already existing safety and visibility concerns.

Ms. Marsh reported that there are some email comments that need to be read into the record. One
address has been added to a comment included in the Meeting Materials Packet. In addition, there
was a comment submitted by Ms. Cecil, who shared comments during the Public Hearing, and
there was a third comment received over the weekend that was not included in the published
Meeting Materials Packet. Chair Roach stated that the written comment from Ms. Cecil
highlighted four points related to compatibility, parking, driveways, and lighting. There was also
an email comment received over the weekend from Sandy Overmon, who also lives in the Hadley
Pines townhouse development directly west. The comment stated that in its current condition, the
“Casper Cottage” is unattractive and a potential detriment to the sale of the two buildings on the
parcel. Even if the cottage is renovated, it will be difficult to sell those lots. There is not support
for a museum or commercial property that will invite increased traffic, noise, and street parking.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 04/21/2026

                                                  9
Mr. Hilton responded to the comments made during the hearing. He noted that there was a
reference made to two lots versus three lots. Originally, the intention was to rezone the property
and have five or six single-family homes in this space, but that was not approved. In retrospect,
he believes that was the right decision, as it would have been too much density for the area.
Mr. Hilton explained that the proposal has evolved, and what is proposed is approximately half
the density that was originally envisioned. In the past, there were discussions about having two
larger homes rather than three smaller homes. He noted that because of the PUD, it was possible
to equalize lot sizes. The north side could have had five units with two on the south, but the
proposal was to have four and three, with the density of seven units, but that was not approved.

Mr. Hilton acknowledged that there have been previous proposals, but hopes the current proposal
will be considered based on its merits. During the Public Hearing, there were comments made
about the antique shop and the fact that there will be a lot of demand but a small clientele.
Mr. Hilton clarified that antique dealers are looking for a space like this, which is not the same as
stating there will be a lot of clientele and traffic. It will not be difficult to find dealers who want
to use this space, but the amount of traffic associated with the use will not necessarily be high.

There was a Traffic Engineer hired to look at Murray Holladay Road, and it was recommended
that there be parking on both sides of the road, because it would have a calming effect on the
traffic. As a result, there is no agreement with the comments that indicated parking would
negatively impact safety. Mr. Hilton reminded those present that the applications currently before
the Planning Commission have to do with proposed modifications and additional uses. Both of
the additional uses are allowed conditionally under the Historic Preservation Ordinance.

Chair Roach discussed the Historic Site Modification application. Outside of changing the
windows and adding some shutters, he is not sure the modification feels necessary. As for the
Additional Uses, the request feels disingenuous when looking back at the last four or five years.

Commissioner Berndt asked if there is a Site Plan that shows where everything will be located,
which was denied. He wanted to know if there is a Landscaping Plan. Mr. Teerlink reported that
those drawings were not included in the application. Commissioner Berndt is concerned about
making a decision without more information available for the Commission to review. He asked if
the street parking has to be adjacent to the site. Mr. Teerlink explained that a percentage of the
required parking can be provided off-site. An agreement can be made with off-site property
owners for a certain number of stalls.

Commissioner Berndt expressed concerns that the parking in this area will shift over to Harmons,
even if there are no formal agreements in place. He asked if the City is interested in having a
museum in this location. Mr. Teerlink stated that he is unable to speak on behalf of the City about
the interest in a museum. Commissioner Berndt believed there should be a Site Plan available for
the Planning Commission to review. He also felt that additional information about parking is
needed before the Commission makes a decision, such as a Parking Analysis based on the proposed
use. He pointed out that the parking will be more intense if there is a museum and an antique shop.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 04/21/2026

                                                  10
Commissioner Angela Gong agreed that there is context missing at this point, especially since this
is part of a PUD. Commissioner Prince noted that the PUD exists, but there is no information
about how this proposal fits within the vision of the PUD as it was previously planned. She echoed
other comments from Commissioners that there is not enough information to make a decision.

Commissioner Fonte went to visit the property ahead of the Planning Commission Meeting and
could not find a place to park. She ended up driving around the corner and parking in a
neighborhood. If there is a retail business in the area, it is unclear where customers will park.
Commissioner Fonte noted that if there is an antique shop, people will need to park somewhere
near the store to take items home. If there are large items sold, trucks might need to be brought
into the area. She does not believe there has been enough information provided to the Planning
Commission. Commissioners discussed whether a continuance or denial would be appropriate.

City Attorney, Brad Christopherson, explained that, typically, with a CUP, as long as certain items
are met, there is an obligation to approve. However, in the ordinance that the City of Holladay
adopted, it states that this is not something that is done by right, and there is no guarantee of a
conditional use. Based on the TRC report, there was no strong connection between historic
preservation and the proposed additional uses. The Planning Commission can continue the items
and request that the applicant bring back additional information that would allow a decision to be
made. Alternatively, the Planning Commission can determine that the obligations of the
application were not met and deny the two items. He agreed that the most generous thing the
Commission could do is continue Item 2 and Item 3 to allow the applicant to bring back additional
information.

Chair Roach reported that the last time the Planning Commission considered a historic house that
wanted to locate a business inside the house, there was plenty of off-street parking already
established. In addition, the house was already built. There was no request to build something in
addition to that. In this case, it is possible to continue Item 2 and Item 3, so the applicant has more
time to gather information. Chair Roach asked about the Historic Site Modification that is
proposed. He believed there is information missing for the modification request. It is possible to
continue the modification, but deny the additional uses. There was additional discussion about the
two items related to “Casper Cottage” and how to best proceed. Commissioner Prince stated that
she is not sure the Planning Commission can approve what has been proposed by the applicant.

Commissioner Gong explained that she is considering what it means to continue versus deny. She
asked if an applicant can bring back a variation of the request with additional details if there is a
denial. Mr. Teerlink clarified that it would be possible to bring back something different at another
time, but that would be a different application. Commissioner Gong wanted to know if there is a
time limit once something has been continued. Mr. Teerlink reported that a continuation presumes
the item will return to the Planning Commission in the next few meetings. Alternatively, it is
possible to table the item until the applicant is ready with a complete application. There could be
work done with Staff before the application returns to the Planning Commission for consideration.

Chair Roach asked Mr. Hilton if he would like to withdraw the application for Item 2 or Item 3.
Mr. Hilton requested additional clarification. Chair Roach explained that if the applicant would


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 04/21/2026

                                                  11
like to withdraw Item 2 or Item 3 at this time, then it will be possible for him to return at a later
date. Mr. Hilton stated that he did not want to withdraw either of the “Casper Cottage” items.

Commissioner Prince explained that her concern with a continuance is that the next Planning
Commission Meeting is scheduled for April 28, 2026, and the following meeting is May 5, 2026.
She does not want to see the “Casper Cottage” applications until there is enough information to
make a decision. There has not been enough detail provided at this point. Commissioner Prince
believed the most appropriate action would be to table the item. She asked the City Attorney how
to table the applications rather than continue them. Mr. Christopherson reported that the Planning
Commission can table the applications and direct Staff not to put the items back on the agenda
until there is a complete application. It is also possible to deny or continue the applications.

Commissioner Fonte asked what the difference is between tabling and continuing an application.
Mr. Christopherson explained that tabling an application allows the applicant to complete and add
to the application. The information requirements can be met and then it can be added to a future
Planning Commission Meeting agenda. If an application is denied, then it cannot come back for
at least a year. Chair Roach pointed out that the applicant chose not to withdraw the applications.
In his opinion, it would make sense to deny the applications based on what has been presented.

Chair Roach moved to DENY the application for a Conditional Use Permit for a Historic Site
Modification for the “Casper Cottage,” designated as a historic site by Section 13.86.020 of the
City of Holladay Code, based on the Planning Commission finding that there was not a complete
application submitted. The applicant was given an opportunity to withdraw the application and
rejected that option. Commissioner Fonte seconded the motion. Vote on Motion:
Commissioner Fonte-Yes; Commissioner Prince-Yes; Commissioner Gong-Yes; Commissioner
Berndt-Yes; Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

3.     “Casper Cottage” – Historic Site Conditional Land Use Permit – 2394 East Murray
       Holladay Road (R-1-10) Review and Consideration of a Request by the Property
       Owner for Additional Land Uses for a Historic Site, including as an Antique Shop
       and the Construction of One New Residential Dwelling Unit. Item Reviewed as a
       Conditional Use as per Provisions Stated in Holladay Ordinance §13.08.040. File #26-
       01-05.
Item 3 on the Regular Meeting agenda was discussed with Item 2.

Chair Roach moved to DENY the application for Additional Uses for Historic Sites for the
“Casper Cottage,” designated as a historic site by Section 13.86.020 of the City of Holladay
Code, based on the Planning Commission finding that there was not a complete application
submitted. The applicant was given an opportunity to withdraw the application and rejected
that option. Commissioner Prince seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Fonte-
Yes; Commissioner Prince-Yes; Commissioner Gong-Yes; Commissioner Berndt-Yes; Chair
Roach-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

The Planning Commission took a short break before hearing the final Public Hearing item.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 04/21/2026

                                                 12
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held on Tuesday, April 21, 2026.




Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: June 2, 2026




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 04/21/2026

                                              16
From: Denise C
Sent: Sunday, March 22, 2026 7:11 PM
To: Carrie Marsh <cmarsh@holladayut.gov>
Subject: Notice of Public Hearing for March 24th - "Casper Cottage"



[External Email - Use Caution]

Carrie:



I look forward to the Public Hearing on March 24, 2025 to clarify details regarding the
Conditional Use Permit, Historic Site Use and Modifications submitted to your office
Based on the general information I have received

                                                  3
regarding the development of the "Casper Cottage", here are a few
concerns:



Highlighted Areas of Concern from your Chapter 13 of Historic Preservation
Codes.



Approval Standards: A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable
conditions are proposed by the applicant, or can be imposed by the land
use authority, to mitigate the potential detrimental effects of the proposed
use in accordance with applicable standards set forth in this section.

    1. A conditional use shall:Be compatible with the character of the
site, adjacent properties and uses, and existing development within the
vicinity of the site where the use will be located.

      d. Provide vehicular access to the site without materially degrading
the existing level of service of the abutting streets.

       e. Locate all driveways oriented to direct traffic to streets, major or
local, without impacting the safety, purpose, and character of these
streets.

      f. Locate on site parking areas and structures, particularly those
locations likely to encourage street side parking for the proposed use, in
areas of the site that will not adversely impact the reasonable use of
adjacent properties.

Parking:

Murray Holladay Road between Russell and 2300 has very little
parking. Our neighbors and their guests already have difficulty finding
places to park in this segment of the road. I believe that more vehicles
parking for an antique store in our residential neighborhood would
adversely impact the reasonable use of adjacent properties. Also, it is
already challenging to come out of the driveways of Hadley Pines, Holladay
Row, and Harmons Grocery Store because it is difficult to see oncoming
cars. Additionally, we have a lot of kids/teens that mingle around this area
with scooters, ebikes, motorbikes, golf carts, etc.. making it imperative that
we can see as we pull out onto S. Murray Holladay Road. I recognize the
value and the need to preserve Historical Sites in Holladay. However, I do
wonder if the intent for Holladay City Code Section 13.86 stating that you
"may approve" of an Antique Shop located on a historical site is not
well suited for the "Casper Cottage" location.



                                      4
Lighting:

As a residential neighborhood consideration of limited noise, Dark Sky
compliant lighting should be considered. Hadley Pines Community and a
residential home are both directly adjacent to the cottage and would be
affected by lighting.



Visual Impact & Noise Levels:

Who will maintain this building and exterior property? Will there be
monitoring of how this business utilized signage and antique items being
placed outside? Will there be a restriction of operating hours that meet the
needs of a residential community?



Lastly, a present concern for how this project could be developed into
something more extensive. Could this become more than a small home
housing a museum and one bedroom antique store?



13.86.050: SITE MODIFICATION:

Upon application by the property owner and according to the procedures
and requirements set forth in section 13.08.040 of this title, the planning
commission may modify all yard, parking, landscaping, height and other
requirements of the zone in which the historic site is located, as
necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. In so doing, the nature
and character of adjacent properties shall be considered to ensure that
the health, safety, convenience and general welfare will not be impaired.
The planning commission may establish development criteria to control
impacts associated with the heaviest permitted use in the base zone,
including, but not limited to, noise, Dark Sky compliant lighting, dust or
odor. (Ord. 2012-15, 9-20-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-21, 11-21-2024)

----------------------------------------------



Thank you for all you do for our wonderful Holladay Community!

Denise Cecil
4673 Hadley Pines Ct




                                                 5
On Tue, Mar 17, 2026 at 9:01 AM Carrie Marsh <cmarsh@holladayut.gov> wrote:

Thank you for the comment. It will be included in the public record and reviewed by the planning
commission.
This public hearing has also been rescheduled to the 24th of March from March 17th as political caucus
nights are being held on the 17th.

Something to be aware of is that the property does have a historic designation, which grants additional
uses for historic properties. You can review additional uses granted in City of Holladay Code
§13.86.080. Conditions to mitigate any potential impacts from the proposed use are what is being
reviewed by the Planning Commission.




                             Carrie Marsh

                             Senior Planner




                             Phone: 801-527-3890

                             Email: cmarsh@HolladayUT.gov

                             Web: www.HolladayUT.gov




From: Aaron Lazor
Sent: Sunday, March 15, 2026 10:19 PM
To: Carrie Marsh <cmarsh@holladayut.gov>
Subject: Official Comment - Objection to CUP for 2397 E. Murray Holladay Road (Prohibited Retail Use)



[External Email - Use Caution]
                                                        2
To the Holladay City Planning Department and Planning Commission,

I am submitting this official comment for the public record regarding the Conditional Use Permit (CUP)
application for 2397 E. Murray Holladay Road, scheduled for the March 17th hearing. I am the owner of
the immediately adjacent property at 2388 East Murray Holladay Road.

I urge the Planning Commission to recommend a denial of this CUP based on clear violations of
established zoning ordinances:

   • Prohibited Use Category: Per Holladay Code of Ordinances Chapter 13.100.010, "Table of
        Allowed Uses," retail use—including an antiques shop—is explicitly prohibited in an R-1-10
        single-family residential zone.
   • Invalid Conditional Use: A Conditional Use Permit cannot be utilized to authorize a land use that is
        fundamentally prohibited by the base zoning. The Commission does not have the administrative
        authority to override the Table of Allowed Uses via a CUP.
   • Illegal Spot Zoning: Any attempt to alter the zoning designation of this specific parcel to
        accommodate retail use would constitute illegal spot zoning. Singling out one residential parcel
        for commercial benefit to the detriment of the surrounding residential neighborhood is
        unacceptable and legally indefensible.

The proposed commercial retail use is incompatible with the R-1-10 zone and prohibited by city code. I
respectfully request the Planning Commission deny the conditional use permit for the antiques shop.



Aaron




                                                  3
To: Carrie Marsh <cmarsh@holladayut.gov>
Subject: Casper Cottage




[External Email - Use Caution]

Dear Ms Marsh-



I am writing regarding the proposed Casper Cottage at 2397 E Murray Holladay Road.



I am opposed to the 2 conditional use premits being presented.



I do not think the city needs an 'Antique' shop, and we do not need the land surrounding the Antique
shop. This is not part of our master plan and provides VERY limited benefits to city residents.

I also do not want city taxes 'converting', maintaining and updating the Antique shop and surrounding
backgrounds. We do not need this and it will be a long term maintenance expense for Holladay.

Lastly, I do NOT support narrowing Murray Holladay Road simply to benefit one constituent. This is a
major feeder road and keeps cars off the other streets around downtown.



Thank you for your time.

--

Robin Hough




--
Robin Hough



                                                   2
       PROPOSED ADDITIONAL USE OF THE HISTORIC CASPER COTTAGE PROPERTY

Casper Cottage, built in 1898 at 2394 E Murray Holladay Road, has been designated as an
historic site in Section 13.86.020 of the Holladay Code. Pursuant to Section 13.86.060, we are
requesting an additional single-family dwelling unit, separately owned from all abutting lots (6
units/acre). The 938 sq ft historic cottage sits at the front of an almost 12K sq ft parcel along
Murray Holladay Road – Lot 2A in the Hulton Park subdivision. We propose to build a single-
family detached home on the rear portion of this lot, consistent with the 6 units/acre density of
the subdivision as a whole. Like the rest of the subdivision, it will be of a traditional design that
is meant to match the general character of Casper Cottage and the other small homes of
similar vintage in this historic bungalow district of Holladay. Approval would include removal of
the existing restriction on Lot 2A against separate ownership from abutting lots, and the
granting of building permit #25-00-0097 for the new home. We in turn would record a common
area and historic preservation easement for the Cottage and surrounding portion of Lot 2A. If
this conditional use were not approved, then the likely outcome would be that a much larger
home would be built on Lot 2 and 2A combined, and the Cottage would be demolished to
make way for that, thus defeating both the goal of preservation and that of compatibility with
the neighboring historic bungalows.



       PROPOSED MODIFICATION OF THE HISTORIC CASPER COTTAGE STRUCTURE

As part of the restoration of Casper Cottage, we are requesting approval to replace the early
additions that were made to it with something more compatible with the original and with
other historic homes of the time period. Casper Cottage was originally just a two-room
“shotgun” style building, which was unusual for this time and place. It may have been due to
financial constraints that the Casper family was experiencing at the time, preventing them
from adopting the larger “cross-wing” style, of which there were many examples in Holladay
from the late 1800s, including the Casto home, the Bowthorpe home, and the Andrus home,
which was built just three years earlier and one block west of Casper Cottage. The cross-wing
additions to Casper Cottage in the early 1900s were of much inferior construction and
materials than the original, and are presently in very poor condition.

At this point we are mainly seeking approval for the exterior appearance of the proposed
modification to Casper Cottage. The internal floorplan will depend on whether the City
accepts our offer to use it as a History Museum, which is related to but is not part of this
application. A more detailed design will be provided for the Planning Commission to review
once that decision has been made. If it is not used as a museum, then it will simply be used as
a rental home, which would have a different floorplan. That is why that level of detail is
presently lacking.
Here is the before and after of the Bowthorpe House as recently approved:
Note that the cross-wing design has been significantly upgraded, and that siding has
been used to cover and protect the original deteriorating brick exterior, but it is still
faithful to the time period.

Here is the Andrus House, built in 1895 just west of Holladay Boulevard:




Note that the exterior finish, the roof line, and the style and size of the windows are the
same throughout, as we are proposing for Casper Cottage.

As shown below, our proposal for Casper Cottage is similarly faithful to the original and
to these other Holladay homes of the time period. While it is true that the proposed
modification may not meet the strictest academic standards for preservation, it is
consistent in that regard with other historic home modifications that have been
approved in Holladay, enabling conditional uses that make preservation economically
feasible, which is the far-sighted aim of Holladay’s unique preservation ordinance.

I therefore respectfully request approval of both the additional use and the proposed
modification of Casper Cottage.
                CASPER COTTAGE
              EXISTING FLOORPLAN
  SCALE 1" = 5'
 12.0'




                                   28.8'
10.0'
      CASPER COTTAGE PROPOSED FLOORPLAN
                       25'




                                                  16'




                 ANTIQUE
                  SHOP                     4'
38'                                   3'

                                                  14'




                                                MUSEUM
                                                          29'




           13'                8'


                                     10'
                             PORCH
SCALE 1" = 5'
                                                    14'
    CASPER COTTAGE
  EXISTING FRONT VIEW




PROPOSED MODIFICATION
                                          City of Holladay
                                      HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                COUNCIL STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE: July 16th 2026
SUBJECT: Zone Map Amendment – 4901 South Memory Lane; Residential Single-Family (R-1-21) to Public (P)
SUBMITTED BY: Jonathan Teerlink, CED Director


ACTION:
Legislative. Ordinance amendments are to be reviewed and considered during a public hearing prior to a
motion of final decision/action.

SUMMARY:
The applicant, Jordan Buckner, representing the current property owner (Holladay Memorial Park, Inc.) at
4901 S Memory Ln., is requesting to change the zone designation at this location from the current, Residential
single-family home zone (R-1-21) to the Public zone (P).

On June 16th 2026 the Holladay Planning Commission forwarded a unanimous recommendation to approve
the application to change the land use zone at this location from R-1-21 to P to accommodate a future
cemetery expansion. The property owner will
provide a formal presentation to the City Council for
final consideration.

BACKGROUND:
The subject property (4901 S Memory Ln.) is situated
within an established single-family residential
neighborhood immediately east of the Royal
Holladay Hills regional mixed-use development. The
property encompasses approximately 2.34 acres
(101,930 sq. ft.) and is bordered by the Holladay
Memorial Cemetery to the south, the Jordan and
Salt Lake City Canal to the east, residential
properties to the north, and Memory Lane to the
west.

According to Salt Lake County records, the property
was recently acquired by Holladay Memorial
Cemetery, Inc., which also legally owns the adjoining
cemetery property directly south of the subject site.
                                           City of Holladay
                                       HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
The cemetery has long served the community by providing burial and memorial services. However, available
burial spaces are becoming increasingly limited. As a result, the property owner intends to expand the existing
cemetery onto the subject property to accommodate future community needs.

Although Holladay Memorial Cemetery, Inc. now holds ownership of both parcels, the proposed expansion
cannot occur under the property's current zoning designation. The subject site is presently zoned R-1-21
(Single-Family Residential), whereas cemetery uses are permitted within the Public Use (P) Zone. Accordingly,
the applicant is requesting a zoning map amendment to rezone the subject property from R-1-21 to Public Use
(P) to facilitate the proposed cemetery expansion. Exhibit 1 illustrates the existing zoning designation of the
subject property and the surrounding zoning pattern within the vicinity.

GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE:
The City’s General Plan (Holladay Horizons) serves as a planning guide to assist in the decision-making
processes and as a centralized blueprint for how the City should grow over the next 10 to 15 years. According
to the Future Land Use Map, the subject property and surrounding area are designated as Low-Density
Residential (L-D-R). This designation is intended to preserve established residential neighborhoods whose
unique character reflects the historic pattern of development throughout the City.

City Staff finds that the proposed zone change is consistent with the vision and objectives of the General Plan.
Although the surrounding area is primarily residential in nature, the adjoining cemetery has existed as a
longstanding institutional use within the neighborhood and is recognized as a compatible secondary use within
Low-Density Residential areas. The proposed rezone would allow for a logical expansion of this existing use
onto adjacent property under the Public (P) zoning designation without introducing a new or incompatible
land use into the area.

Furthermore, the General Plan (Page 34) specifically acknowledges that while Low-Density Residential areas
are intended to remain predominantly residential, certain community service uses should be permitted to
continue where they have historically existed:
"While the future land use is anticipated to be primarily low-density residential, uses such as schools, parks, and
open spaces that allow neighborhood spaces to grow and gather should be allowed to continue, but only to the
scale and extent that they have historically existed within neighborhoods."
Accordingly, Staff finds that the proposed rezone is in substantial conformance with the goals, policies, and
land use vision of the Holladay Horizons General Plan.

TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE ANALYSIS:
The proposed rezone would allow for the expansion of an existing cemetery, thereby providing additional
space for burial and memorial services that serve an important community need. Cemeteries are long-
standing community institutions that provide a dignified place for remembrance, reflection, and end-of-life
                                          City of Holladay
                                      HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
services. As available burial space within the existing cemetery becomes increasingly limited, the proposed
expansion would help ensure that these services remain available to current and future residents. In this
regard, the proposal supports the health, safety, and welfare objectives that underlie the public interest.

From a land use and housing development point of view, approval of the rezone would remove the potential
to develop at least 4 single-family residential units (based on the R-1-21 zoning designation). However, the
proposed use is anticipated to house and honor the memories of several hundreds of members of the
community who have/will pass on from this life into the next. City Staff finds that the proposed rezone
advances the public interest by supporting an essential community service, preserving the continuity of an
existing cemetery, and addressing a demonstrated long-term need for additional burial space. While the
proposal represents a tradeoff between potential residential development and cemetery expansion, Staff
believes the broader community benefit associated with maintaining and expanding this longstanding public-
serving use outweighs the limited loss of future residential development potential.

      “The land belongs to the people…a little of it those who are dead…some to those living…but most of
     it belongs to those yet to be born” (Just vs. Marinette County, 1972).

This principle reflects the importance of balancing present and future community needs in land use decision-
making.

City Staff finds that the proposed zone change is necessary to achieve the objectives and purposes discussed
throughout this analysis. Although Holladay Memorial Cemetery, Inc. owns both the existing cemetery
property and the subject parcel, the planned expansion of the cemetery cannot occur under the current
zoning designation of the subject property. If the two parcels are combined into a single lot, they cannot retain
different zoning classifications. Because the intended use of the combined property is to expand the existing
cemetery, the current R-1-21 (Single-Family Residential) zoning designation would not support the proposed
use. Accordingly, rezoning the subject property to the Public (P) zone is necessary to facilitate the
consolidation of the parcels and allow for the continued operation and expansion of the cemetery.

RECOMMENDATION:
The TRC has confirmed that the application filed by the applicant for a zone map amendment is complete. On
June 16th, Staff provided the Planning Commission with a positive recommendation. The Commission reviewed
the application during a public hearing. No public comment was taken. The commission provided the Council
with a positive recommendation to approve the rezone based upon the following findings:
                                         City of Holladay
                                     HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
Planning Commission findings:
        1. The proposed zone change is consistent with this policy direction, as it facilitates the continued
           operation and modest expansion of an established community-serving use that has historically
           existed in this location.
        2. The proposed zone change balances present and future community needs in land use decision-
           making.
        3. The proposed zone change is harmonious with the City's future development objectives and the
           character of the surrounding area
        4. The rezone would support the continued stewardship of community land resources while providing
           space for an essential public-serving use that addresses both current and future community needs.
        5. The proposed rezone is both reasonable and necessary to accommodate the intended use of the
           property and to implement the long-term objectives identified in this report.

Staff can therefore recommend that the Council hold the final required public hearing and moderate a
discussion with the applicant on the merits of amending the Holladay Zone map at 4901 South Memory Lane
from R-1-21 to P.

ATTACHMENTS:
Zone map and amendment area

FISCAL IMPACT:
None

SUGGESTED MOTION:
Continue to Work session
                                          City of Holladay
                                      HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                 COUNCIL STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE: July 16th 2026
SUBJECT: Ordinance Amendment; Inclusion of “Personal Services” to the Land Use Table of Allowed Uses
within the Royal Holladay Hills SDMP (2007) - Land Use Table
SUBMITTED BY: Jonathan Teerlink, CED Director


ACTION:
Legislative. Ordinance amendments are to be reviewed and considered during a public hearing prior to a
motion of final decision/action.

SUMMARY:
The property owner has applied to the City to amend Land Use table on page 3 of the SDMP. As proposed, the
amendment includes to the category of “Retail Building” the business type of “Personal Services” (see
attached). The amendment is limited to the Open Land use zone.

On June 16th 2026 the Holladay Planning Commission forwarded a unanimous recommendation to approve an
application to include “Personal Services” as an allowable land use in the Royal Holladay Hills redevelopment
site. The property owner will provide a formal presentation to the City Council for final consideration.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE, CONSIDERATIONS:
A list of allowable land uses for the
Royal Holladay Hills redevelopment
site is provided on page 3 of the Site
Development Master Plan (SDMP).
As the property owner begins to
source new tenants to fill new
spaces, the list of allowed
businesses does not include those in
the category of Personal Services,
i.e. beauty and barber services,
tanning, nails, massage therapy,
aesthetician, permanent cosmetics,
or day spa. Accordingly, the
property owner seeks to add
Personal Services as an allowed
business type within the “Open” land use district.
                                           City of Holladay
                                       HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE ANALYSIS:
The vision for the Holladay Hills site anticipates development of a vibrant community within Holladay and the
region. Development is based in traditional neighborhood development (TND) patterns. These traditional
patterns include a variety of housing types and workplaces, together with shopping, various services,
entertainment, & gathering spaces. By bringing many of the activities of daily living within reach of residents.

Development standards for the site are anticipated to encompass a mix of uses including residential and
nonresidential uses within the same building and inviting public and private spaces in a manner that promotes
walkability and human interaction. The Holladay Hills site could be lacking in the necessary mixture of land
uses which support the vision statement of the R-M/U zone.

RECOMMENDATION:
The TRC has confirmed that the application filed by the property owner for a text amendment is complete.
Staff provided the Planning Commission with a positive recommendation. The Commission reviewed the
application during a public hearing. No public comment was taken. The commission provided the Council with
a positive recommendation based upon the following findings:

Planning Commission findings:
    1. The property owner of the site is the applicant of the amendment and is engaged in providing quality
        land uses that support current and future shopping experiences,
    2. The Royal Holladay Hills redevelopment site, as envisioned by the R-M/U zone, shall be a destination
        site providing a range of mixed-uses, and
    3. The amendment does not conflict with existing land uses or create non-conforming business operations
        within the zone.

Staff can therefore recommend that the Council hold the final required public hearing and moderating a
discussion with the applicant to amend page 3 of the SDMP to include “Personal Services” under the category
“Retail Building” to, as shown in Exhibit “A,”

ATTACHMENTS:
SDMP Amendment, Page 3

FISCAL IMPACT:
None

SUGGESTED MOTION:
Continue to Work session
                                                                       Permitted Land Uses by District and Building Functions




                                                                                                                                     ***




                         (Height Exception Allowed)




  Site Districts




                                                                                                                      ***Retail Building to include Personal Services as allowed uses.
  Site Districts


                                                                                                                      Note: Live/Work Units are not regulated as home occupational units .
                                                                                                                       DISTRICT




Draft Date: April 2025
Draft Date: 12/11/07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Page 3 of 28

                                                                          Cottonwood
                                                      Site Development Master Plan - Regional Mixed-Use Development
                                                                                                                                                                                             These plans are instruments of professional service and are protected by Common Law, Statutory, and other Reserved Rights including
                                                                                                                                                                                             Copyright. They may not be reproduced or used for any purpose without the written consent of General Growth Properties, Inc.
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2026-21

          A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY ADOPTING
         POLICIES RELATING TO THE MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF PUBLIC SIDEWALKS

        WHEREAS, the City Manager and the Engineer have made a recommendation to the
Council that the Council approve and adopt policies relating to the Maintenance and Repair of
public sidewalks within the City; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the proposed policies and finds that they will
benefit the general public and will promote the fiscal integrity of the City;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

      Section 1. Approval. The City Council of the City of Holladay hereby adopts the
Sidewalk Policies, attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

        Section 3. Clerical Corrections. The City Recorder, under the supervision of the City
Manager and in consultation with the City Manager and City Attorney, is authorized to make non-
substantive corrections to any portion of this Resolution and to the City codes referenced herein,
if any, for grammatical, typographical, or numbering errors, or for consistency purposes that do
not alter the substance of the Resolution.

      Section 4. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.

             PASSED AND APPROVED this ___ day of July, 2026.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL


                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Paul Fotheringham, Mayor

[SEAL]                                           VOTING:
                                                 David Sumdwall             Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Matt Durham                Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Natalie Bradley            Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Drew Quinn                 Yea        Nay ___
Sidewalk Management Policy

Purpose

The purpose of the City of Holladay’s sidewalk management policy is to establish a proactive, systematic
approach to ensure sidewalks are safe, accessible, and compliant with applicable standards and laws.
This policy is designed to improve public safety, support ADA compliance, reduce liability exposure and
extend the life of sidewalk infrastructure.

Scope

This policy applies to all sidewalks, curb ramps, pedestrian pathways, crosswalks, and pedestrian-
related concrete infrastructure owned, operated, or maintained by the city, including:

   •     Public rights-of-way

   •     Parks and other public facilities

   •     Parking lots

   •     Trails and shared-use paths

Policy

During FY 2026-27, all sidewalks and pedestrian assets will be mapped and inventoried by segment using
GIS. Each segment should include:

   •     Location

   •     Length and width

   •     Surface type

   •     Age (if known)

   •     Adjacent land use

   •     ADA features (ramps, landings, detectable warnings)

   Inspections: Beginning in FY 2026-27, sidewalks will be inspected on a deﬁned cycle based on risk
   level:

                                              Inspection
Area Type
                                              Frequency

Holladay Village, schools, transit stops,
                                              1–2 times per year
parks
                                                  Inspection
Area Type
                                                  Frequency

Residential neighborhoods                         Every 2–3 years

Pedestrian pathways/trails /parking lots          Every 3–5 years

After major storms or construction                As needed



Inspections will document any vertical displacement (lips, cracks, heaving), surface defects, ADA
compliance (cross slope, running slope, ramp condition), Obstructions (vegetation, poles, utility
conﬂicts), drainage and ponding, and utility access covers, water meter and manhole covers.

Each sidewalk segment will be assigned a reduces liability exposure based on:

    •   Size of defect

    •   Trip hazard severity

    •   Pedestrian exposure

    •   ADA impact

    •   History of complaints or claims

Ratings will fall into:

    •   Priority 4 – <.25” of variation - No action required

    •   Priority 3 – .25-1” of variation - Monitor and schedule repair if between .5”-1”

    •   Priority 2 – 1-2” of variation - Repair required

    •   Priority 1 – >2” of variation - Immediate hazard; temporary mitigation required



Repairs: Subject to annual appropriations of the City Council, repairs will follow established engineering
and accessibility standards including:

    •   ADA and PROWAG requirements

    •   Local sidewalk design standards, particularly in Holladay Village

Projects will be prioritized using a risk-based model that considers:

    •   Safety risk (Priority 1 followed by Priority 2)
            o   Within 24 hours:

                      Clearly mark with safety yellow paint or close and barricade section.

                      Schedule for immediate repair/replacement as soon as possible

   •   ADA non-compliance

   •   Pedestrian volume

   •   Proximity to schools, transit, and public buildings

   •   Cost vs. beneﬁt

This ensures funding is spent where it reduces the greatest risk and improves accessibility the most.

Tracking:

All hazards, inspections, and repairs will be tracked in a centralized system.

The City of Holladay maintains a reporting system to allow the public to submit sidewalk concerns.
Complaints are logged, inspected within 24 hours, assigned a risk level, and tracked through resolution.
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY


                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2026-22

       A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY APPROVING
       AN AMENDMENT TO AN AGREEMENT WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY RELATING TO
       FUNDING FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITY CENTERED HEALTH
       PROGRAMMING.

        WHEREAS, the City of Holladay previously submitted a proposal to the County for the
application of County funding in support of Health programs within the City; and

       WHEREAS, the City and Salt Lake County, through the Salt Lake County Health Department,
previously entered into an Agreement provide certain funding to the City, on behalf of the City’s
Happy Healthy Holladay program, to support programs enhancing public health; and

      WHEREAS, the City and Salt Lake County desire to amend certain provisions of the
Agreement to extend the term and increase the amount of grant funding; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay has reviewed the proposed
Amendment to the Agreement with Salt Lake County and finds it is in the public interest and will
promote the public welfare to enter into the agreement with Salt Lake County;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

        Section 1.     Approval. That certain Amendment to the Interlocal Agreement between
Salt Lake County and the City of Holladay, attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein
by reference, is hereby approved. The Mayor of the City of Holladay is hereby authorized to sign
the Amendment to the Interlocal Agreement for and in behalf of the City.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

        Section 3. Clerical Corrections. The City Recorder, under the supervision of the City
Manager and in consultation with the City Manager and City Attorney, is authorized to make non-
substantive corrections to any portion of this Resolution and to the City codes referenced herein,
if any, for grammatical, typographical, or numbering errors, or for consistency purposes that do
not alter the substance of the Resolution.

      Section 4. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.

             PASSED AND APPROVED this ___ day of July, 2026.
                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL


                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Paul Fotheringham, Mayor

[SEAL]                                           VOTING:
                                                 David Sumdwall            Yea     Nay ___
                                                 Matt Durham               Yea     Nay ___
                                                 Natalie Bradley           Yea     Nay ___
                                                 Drew Quinn                Yea     Nay ___
                                                 Emily Gray                Yea     Nay ___
                                                 Paul Fotheringham         Yea     Nay ___

ATTEST:
_____________________________
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
City Recorder

         DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this __ day of July, 2026.

         RECORDED this __ day of July, 2026.




                                               -2-
                                                                             County Contract: HLT24CCEB_____ HOLLADAY




        Standard Form Contract No. 26CIV000638, Approved for Division use 2-June-2026 through 31-July-2026



                                          SECOND AMENDMENT
                                                           to
                              INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                                                      between
                                           SALT LAKE COUNTY
                           On behalf of its Salt Lake County Health Department
                                                         and
                                          CITY OF HOLLADAY
                                          _______________________
                                   for its ____________________ Coalition
                                          HAPPY HEALTHY HOLLADAY COALITION




          THIS SECOND AMENDMENT is between SALT LAKE COUNTY (“County”), a body
corporate and politic of the State of Utah, on behalf of its Salt Lake County Health Department, and the
CITY OF HOLLADAY
___________________________ (“Contractor”), also a body corporate and politic of the state of Utah on
behalf of its ______________________________.
              HAPPY HEALTHY HOLLADAY COALITION
                                               County and Contractor are collectively referred to
hereafter as the “Parties.”


                                                   RECITALS

          WHEREAS, the Parties entered into an Agreement (County Contract #HLT24CCEB_______)
                                                                                    HOLLADAY


whereby Contractor agreed to develop and implement a community-centered, evidence-based prevention
coalition with fidelity; and

          WHEREAS, the Agreement was effective August 29, 2024, through August 28, 2025 (“Initial
Term”); and

          WHEREAS, the Parties amended the agreement to add funding; to modify the effective date; and
to exercise the option to renew through June 30, 2027 (“First Renewal Term”); and

          WHEREAS, the Parties now desire to amend the Agreement to modify the scope; to add funding;
to modify payment terms; to modify reporting requirements; and to exercise the final option to renew.

       THEREFORE, in exchange for valuable consideration, including the mutual covenants and
agreements contained in the Agreement, the First Amendment, and this Second Amendment, the Parties
covenant and agree as follows:

  I.      To amend Section 1 of the Agreement, entitled “SCOPE OF SERVICES” to read as follows:
1.   SCOPE OF SERVICES

     1.1   Contractor agrees to provide the services outlined in the Request for Applications
           (“RFA”), which is incorporated by reference and attached as Exhibit 1, and the
           services outlined in Contractor’s application, which is incorporated by reference
           and attached as Exhibit 2.

     1.2   Contractor responsibilities:

           a. Hire and maintain at least a half time (0.5) FTE Communities That Care
           (“CTC”) coordinator and implement the CTC process with fidelity.

           b. The CTC coordinator will work closely with County to receive technical
           assistance by attending semi-monthly CTC Coaching, bi-monthly County
           Coalition Leadership meetings, and any other additional technical assistance
           sessions identified by County.

           c. The CTC coordinator must be certified in the Utah Substance Abuse
           Prevention Specialist Training (“USAPST”) and CTC coordinator training within
           six-months of any new coordinator’s start date.

                   i. Copies of certificates of completion must be provided to County.

                   ii. Contractor is financially responsible for USAPST and CTC
                   coordinator training, and must purchase the 3-year license which, at the
                   time of this Amendment, costs $2,600. These costs may be covered by
                   funds provided through this Agreement if included in the Contractor’s
                   budget.

           d. Contractor shall utilize CTC Milestones and Benchmarks to provide evidence
           of coalition progress implemented to fidelity.

           e. Contractor will be monitored by the Salt Lake County Health Department
           (“SLCoHD”) on a quarterly basis for contract compliance. Should non-
           compliance occur two or more months per quarter, Contractor will be placed on a
           90-day monitoring period which may result in required utilization of County
           support tools, which include but are not limited to additional training and
           technical assistance. Failure to show compliance and/or engagement in support
           tools during the 90-day monitoring period could result in withholding payment
           until performance has improved or contract termination.
                           f. Contractor agrees to give credit to County in all County-supported event or
                           program promotional or informational communication materials, websites, public
                           presentations, etc. Displaying the Salt Lake County Health Department is
                           preferable, but text reference is also acceptable.

                   1.3     County Responsibilities: County agrees to maintain and make readily available
                   several support tool options for Contractor to utilize to ensure contract compliance.
                   Support tools include but are not limited to: verbal discussion, collaborative development
                   of a support plan, and a mandatory formal corrective action plan. Contractor may request
                   use of support tools at any time during the contract period. County reserves the right to
                   require Contractor to engage with each of these tools progressively or selectively
                   depending on the severity of the situation



 II.       To amend Section 3 of the Agreement, entitled “PAYMENT” to read as follows:

           3.      PAYMENT

           Contractor shall be reimbursed on a 1/12th basis, meaning each month through the contract year.
       To be reimbursed, Contractor must have complete and accurate demographics and service data
       submitted in a County approved electronic system on or before the 15th of the following month, as
       described in Section 5 – Reporting Requirements, of the Agreement. Payment may be withheld due to
       lack of data submission. End of term demographics and service data must be submitted on or before
       July 15th of each year. The County shall submit monthly invoices on behalf of Contractor.



III.       To amend Section 2 of the Agreement, entitled “CONSIDERATION”, to read as follows:

           2.      CONSIDERATION
                   2.1     Contractor has been reimbursed ____________
                                                          $199,000 for services rendered under this
                   Agreement during the Initial and First Renewal Terms.
                   2.2     Contractor shall be reimbursed by County in an amount not to exceed
                   ____________
                   $94,500      in SUBG funding and___________________
                                                   $10,000             in CTC funding for the July
                   1, 2026-June 30, 2027 time period. Total consideration for the Second Renewal Term
                            $104,500
                   shall be ____________________.
                   2.3     Total consideration for the Initial, First Renewal, and Second Renewal Terms of
                                     $303,500
                   this Agreement is ___________.
               2.4      As additional funds become available, or if funds are reduced from state and
               federal sources for the services provided under this Agreement, the amount may be
               increased or decreased by formal written amendment to this Agreement.

IV.    To amend Section 4 of the Agreement, entitled “EFFECTIVE DATE/TERM” to read as
       follows:

       4.      EFFECTIVE DATE/TERM
               4.1      This Agreement had an initial effective date/term of August 29, 2024, through
               August 28, 2025. To shift Contractor to a fiscal year, the Initial Term was modified to
               end early- on June 30, 2025. The First Renewal Term began July 1, 2025, and extended
               through June 30, 2026.
               4.2      A Second Renewal Term is added effective July 1, 2026, and terminating June
               30, 2027.
               4.3      There are no additional renewals available under this Agreement.
               4.4      Funds from the First Renewal Term will not carry over to the Second Renewal
               Term.

 V.    To amend Section 5 of the Agreement, entitled “REPORTING REQUIREMENTS” to read
       as follows:

       5.      REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

               5.1      Contractor shall adhere to reporting requirements as outlined in the “Reporting”
               section of Exhibit 1 of the underlying Agreement.

               5.2      Contractor shall submit its grant updates, activities, and data from the previous to
               County through SLCoHD’s approved reporting system on or before the 15th of each
               month.

               5.3      County may require additional reporting of process and outcome data.



VI.    The date the last party signs this Second Amendment (as indicated by the date stated under
       that party’s signature) will be deemed the effective date of this Second Amendment.
VII.   All other terms and conditions of the underlying Agreement not specifically amended
       herein shall remain in full force and effect.
VIII.   Standard Form. Any alteration of the standard form language without review of the Salt
        Lake County District Attorney shall render this amendment 2 void and without effect. Any
        changes to this agreement must be pre-reviewed as to form and legality by the District
        Attorney’s Office.



 The Parties execute this Second Amendment.

 SALT LAKE COUNTY                                                 CITY OF HOLLADAY
                                                      CONTRACTOR: ____________________


 Signature: ___________________________               Signature: __________________________
        Mayor or Designee
                                                      Printed Name: _______________________
 Date: _______________________________
                                                      Title: ______________________________

                                                      Date: ______________________________
 Health Department Review


 Signature: ___________________________               Approved as to form for Contractor
        Division Director

                                                      Signature: _____________________________


 Reviewed as to form and legality for
 County:


 Signature: ___________________________
 SP R ING LA NE
 ADA PTI VE REUSE PLA N
 BRIDGI NG DOCUMENT

CIT Y COUNCIL
PRESENTAION
        July 16th, 2026
          SCHEDULE UPDATE

          BRIDGING DOCUMENT REVIEW

          TURF AND IRRIGATION

          COSTS




AG ENDA
          MOVING FORWARD
S C H E D U L E U P D AT E
                    SCHEDULE UPDATE

  COMP LETED                   DOI NG /                                    UP COMING
                           I N P ROGRE SS
• BRID GING             • PROCUCE FINAL
                                                                         • CITY TO SELECT
                          BRIDGING
  DOCUME NT                                                                DELIVERY METHOD
                          DOCUMENT WITH
• COST E STIMATE          COUNCIL INPUT                                  • CONSTRUCTION
                                                                           PHASE




                                     SCHEDULE  UPDATE
                                        SLIDE TOPIC                                   JULY 16 2026 | 4
                   SPRING LANE ADAPTIVE REUSE PLAN - BRIDGING DOCUMENT
BRIDGING DOCUMENT
      REVIEW
Bridging Document Review




    Bridging Document Table of Contents

               BRIDGINGSLIDE
                        DOCUMENT
                             TOPIC REVIEW               JULY 16 2026 | 6
  SPRING LANE ADAPTIVE REUSE PLAN - BRIDGING DOCUMENT
Bridging Document Review




           BRIDGING DOCUMENT  SITE RENDERING
                      SLIDE TOPIC                       JULY 16 2026 | 7
  SPRING LANE ADAPTIVE REUSE PLAN - BRIDGING DOCUMENT
TURF & IRRIGATION
                                                     TURF TYPES




    KENTUCKY BLUEGRASS                              TALL TURF FESCUE                                 BERMUDA GRASS
•    PRO’s - Unmatched self-repairing           •   PRO’S - Exceptionally deep roots             •   PRO’s - Incredible heat and drought
     ability; can spread to ﬁll in bare             allow it to stay green during hot                tolerance, rebounding quickly
     spots and heavy traﬃc areas. - Soft            summers where other cool-season                  from summer stress. - Exceptional
     texture and very deep, vibrant                 grasses go dormant. - High tolerance             recovery rate and traﬃc toleranceit
     blue-green color. - Excellent cold             for shade, heavy foot traﬃc, and                 is frequently used for athletic ﬁelds
     tolerance.                                     wear and tear. - Requires less water             and golf courses.
                                                    and nitrogen fertilizer than Kentucky
•    CON’s - Requires signiﬁcantly more             Bluegrass.                                   •   CON’s - Very poor shade tolerance.
     water (up to 50% more) and regular                                                              - Goes dormant (turns completely
     fertilization than fescue. - Goes          •   CON’S - It grows in clumps (not                  brown) during the winter months.
     dormant and turns brown during                 spreading rhizomes), meaning                     - Only available in Sod or Plug form.
     extended hot, dry spells if not                bare or damaged spots will
     heavily irrigated. - Susceptible to            require reseeding. - Wider, coarser
     fungal diseases like summer patch              blade texture compared to softer
     and prone to thatch buildup.                   bluegrass. - Susceptible to large
                                                    brown patch fungal diseases in
                                                    humid climates.


                                                               TURF TYPES
                                                               SLIDE TOPIC                                                      JULY 16 2026 | 9
                                           SPRING LANE ADAPTIVE REUSE PLAN - BRIDGING DOCUMENT
                                              IRRIGATION
    EXISTING vs. NEW
•    Enhanced Water Eﬃciency

•    Improved Landscape coverage

•    Smart Automation Features

•    Time-Saving Convenience

•    Lower Long-Term Costs

•    Environmental Beneﬁts

•    Advanced Smart Technology

•    Reduced Repair Concerns

RECOMENDATION: Retain
irrigation mainline, install new
valves, laterals and heads,
rebalance topsoil and install new
sod




                                                        IRRIGATION
                                                        SLIDE TOPIC                       JULY 16 2026 | 10
                                    SPRING LANE ADAPTIVE REUSE PLAN - BRIDGING DOCUMENT
COST
                  COST UPDATE

COST OPINION
DESCRIPTION                                                         COST
PAVILLION                                                         330,976
PLAZA                                                             727,643
PICKLEBALL COURTS                                                 564,501
SURROUNDING SITE                                                  891,476
RESTROOM/ MAINTAINENCE BUILDING                                   431,335
PARKING LOT                                                       783,132
PLAYGROUND                                                       1,992,437
MULTIPURPOSE FIELDS                                              1,885,932
DOG PARK                                                           483,429
TOTAL                                                           $8,090,861




                                 COST
                              SLIDE TOPIC                                    JULY 16 2026 | 12
          SPRING LANE ADAPTIVE REUSE PLAN - BRIDGING DOCUMENT
    M O V I N G F O R WA R D


• SELECT DELIVERY METHOD
• CONSTRUCTION PHASE




                                    SLID
                                    SLIDE
                                    SL ID   TO PI
                                       IDEE TOPIC
                                            TOPI
                                               PICC                   JUL
                                                                      JULYY 1
                                                                            166 2 026 | 13
                                                                                2026
                SPRING LANE ADAPTIVE REUSE PLAN - BRIDGING DOCUMENT
                                                                                                                       7/8/2026




         Happy Healthy Holladay
         A Community Health Update for the Holladay City Council




         July 2026



1




     Who We Are

           A coalition of residents, schools, businesses, city
           leaders, healthcare partners, and volunteers
           working together for a healthier, safer, more
           connected Holladay.

                      Supporting youth & families

                      Mental & emotional well-being                [ Add a photo: coaition / city event ]



                      Healthy choices & connection



    Community coalition update                                                                Happy Healthy Holladay


2




                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                       7/8/2026




     How We Got Here


           2023                                      2024             2024–26                    2026




       Evaluate local                              Secure grant to   Grant renewal             2nd renewal
       health data from                            build the         contingent on             milestone met.
       the state &                                 program           progress in CTC
       county                                                        milestones and
                                                                     benchmarks


    We expanded on an existing community health coalition by securing grant funding
    administered by the Salt Lake County Health Department, contingent on continued progress.

    Program origin & funding timeline                                                                         Happy Healthy Holladay


3




     What the Data Told Us
     Our initial evaluation of state & county data pointed to two priority areas:


                               Opioid-Related                                   Mental Health &
                               Harm                                             Suicide Prevention

             Reducing opioid-related emergencies                        Improving mental health and reducing
             and deaths locally.                                        suicide risk locally.




       Note: federal data-system changes delayed some official reporting this year, so we're using proxy indicators
       (next 2 slides) to show direction of travel.


    Priority areas identified in 2023 evaluation                                                              Happy Healthy Holladay


4




                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                    7/8/2026




     Opioid-Related ER Visits: Encouraging Signal




                               84117 (blue) has declined in the most recent periods, now sitting below the
                               county trend (red).


    Source: state/county ER surveillance dashboard (multi-year rolling rates)                              Happy Healthy Holladay


5




     Mental Health ER Visits: Sustained Decline




                               84117 has fallen for six straight periods — now the widest gap in rate of
                               decline below the county on record.


    Source: state/county ER surveillance dashboard (multi-year rolling rates)                              Happy Healthy Holladay


6




                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                           7/8/2026




     What We've Put On Since 2023

                           “Dive Into Family Fun” pool                     Mental health awareness
                           events                                          events



                                                                           Naloxone trainings &
                           Blood drives
                                                                           distribution



                           QPR suicide-prevention                          City event support &
                           trainings                                       volunteering



    [ Add real event photos in place of icons where available ]                                                   Happy Healthy Holladay


7




                                   Youth Spotlight: Page to Stage



             2x
             capacity doubled
                                                                  [ Add a photo: Page to Stage performance or rehearsal ]

             Our popular youth theater program
             now reaches twice as many local kids
             as it did before H3 support.



                                                                                                                  Happy Healthy Holladay


8




                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                   7/8/2026




      Risk & Protective Factor Assessment
      Multi-year student survey data (2021–2025), CTC framework:


                                 Priority Problem Behaviors
                                 Youth alcohol use · Youth marijuana use · Academic failure (12th grade)


                                 Priority Risk Factors
                                 Transitions & mobility · Alcohol risk perception · Home alcohol access · Peer
                                 marijuana norms · School commitment

                                 Priority Protective Factors
                                 Family ties · Community ties · Prosocial opportunities


     Source: SHARP survey data, 2021–2025                                                                                                 Happy Healthy Holladay


9




      Underage Drinking: Home Access & Use
      Two patterns from the 2025 SHARP survey behind our alcohol-access priority:

      Parental Permission for Home Drinking                                           Drank Alcohol, Past 30 Days (12th Grade)
                             8

                                                        7.0                              Local 12th Graders — 2 out of 20
                             7
                                  6.5
        Students out of 10




                                                                               6.0
                             6
                                  5.5                   5.5
                                                                               5.0
                             5                                                           Statewide Average — 1 out of 20

                             4
                                  8th                   10th                   12th
                                        Our Community          State Average



      The 10th-grade spike in parent-permitted drinking is the clearest               Local 12th graders are about twice as likely as the state average to
      local signal behind our alcohol-access priority.                                have used alcohol in the past 30 days.


     Source: SHARP survey data, 2025 — full charts in the written report                                                                  Happy Healthy Holladay


10




                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                         7/8/2026




      Low Commitment to School: The 10th-Grade Pivot
      How the transition to high school changes the risk picture:

      Academic Risk vs. State Baseline, by Grade                                                              The 10th-Grade Pivot (8th → 10th Grade)
                                   1.4

                                   1.2


                                                                                                                ↓ 30%
        Risk ratio (1.0 = state)




                                    1

                                   0.8

                                   0.6
                                                                                                                decline in parental “no-use” messaging
                                   0.4

                                   0.2

                                    0
                                             6th                 8th                 10th           12th
                                         Low School Commitment         Academic Difficulty   State Baseline     ↑ Rising
      Local students outperform the state through 10th grade, then risk                                         youth marijuana & alcohol use begins to
      jumps above baseline senior year.                                                                         climb

     Source: SHARP survey data, 2025 — full charts in the written report                                                                        Happy Healthy Holladay


11




      Resource Assessment: From Findings to Action
      Methodology: Key Leader survey + ABCD asset mapping with the Coalition Board.


                                             Gaps to Close                                                          Strengths to Leverage

                                   • Transitions & mobility                                                   • Community ties (parks, faith, library)
                                   • Risk-perception norms                                                    • Family ties & connection programs
                                   • Home alcohol access
                                   • School-commitment delivery




                                   Strategy: use our strongest community network to deliver the fixes for the gaps.

     Full gap-by-gap detail in the updated report                                                                                               Happy Healthy Holladay


12




                                                                                                                                                                               6
                                                                                                                                                    7/8/2026




      What's Next


           Jun–Jul                                         Aug-Oct                            Nov             May '27




        • Host Parent                                  • Implement                         • Align ongoing   • Review &
          conversation                                   evidence-based                      programs and      re-assess
          groups                                         family programs                     initiatives
        • Build                                        • Audit youth                         with trauma-
          Partnerships                                   engagement                          informed
        • Develop                                        opportunities                       practices and
          Messaging                                    • Establish                           the Social
                                                         metrics                             Development
                                                                                             Strategy.

     Full timeline detailed in the updated Risk & Protective Factors report                                                Happy Healthy Holladay


13




                                          A Young Program, Already Delivering

                                      Funding renewal milestones met. Encouraging trends on priority health
                                          outcomes. A concrete, data-driven plan for what comes next.



                                                                         Thank you — questions welcome



                                                                               mbartley@holladayut.gov




14




                                                                                                                                                          7
