                                 NOTICE OF A MEETING OF THE
                               CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                    THURSDAY, MAY 15, 2025

5:00 p.m.         Council Dinner – Council members will be eating dinner. No city business will be
                  discussed.

5:30 p.m.         Briefing Session - The Council will review and discuss the agenda items; NO decisions will be
                  made


PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a meeting on
Thursday, May 15, 2025, at 6:00 p.m. Members of the Council may participate by electronic means if
needed. The Council Chambers shall serve as the anchor location.
* Agenda items may be moved in order, sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or in this agenda. Interested
parties are encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

To provide a public comment or make a comment during any public hearing, may do so in the following ways:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@holladayut.gov



                                                    AGENDA

I.       Welcome – Mayor Dahle

II.      Pledge of Allegiance

III.     Public Comments
         Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda may provide their comment via
         email to the Council before 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting to scarlson@holladayut.gov with the
         subject line: Public Comment. Comments are subject to the Public Comment Policy set forth below

IV.      Consideration of Ordinance 2025-07 Amending Title 2 of the City Code Relating to
         City Government

V.       Consideration of Resolution 2025-10 Approving a First Amendment to an
         Agreement with Salt Lake County Relating to Funding for the Development of
         Community-Centered Health Programming

VI.      City Manager Report - Gina

VII.     Council Reports & District Issues
VIII.     Recess to a Work Meeting
           a. Rooted Together History Project Updatez

            b. Continued Discussion on 2025-26 Tentative Budgets
                * Administration
                * Community & Economic Development - Jon
                * Non- Departmental
                * UFA – Capt. Brown

                * UPD – Chief Hoyal
                * Cont. Discussion on Stormwater Fee

IX.       Closed Session for the Purpose(s) Described in U.C.A. 52-4-204 and 205

X.        Adjourn




 Public Comment Policy & Procedure: During each regular Council Meeting there will be a Public Comment
 Time. The purpose of the Public Comment Time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council. Citizens requesting to
 address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and present it to the City Recorder. In general,
 the Chairman will allow an individual three minutes to address the Council. A spokesman, recognized as
 representing a group in attendance, may be allowed up to five minutes. Comments which cannot be made within
 these time limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting so
 they can be copied and distributed to the Council. At the conclusion of the Citizen Comment time, the Chairman
 may direct staff to assist the citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative
 department(s); or take no action. This policy also applies to all Public Hearings.

 CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
 I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above agenda notice was
 posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,
 and was emailed to the Salt Lake Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

 DATE POSTED: Monday, May 12, 2025 at 10:30 am
 Stephanie N. Carlson MMC,
 City Recorder, City of Holladay


         Reasonable accommodation for individuals with disabilities or those needing language interpretation
      services can be provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at
             least three days in advance. TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2025-06

         AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY AMENDING TITLE 2 OF CITY CODE
                           RELATING TO CITY GOVERNMENT

       WHEREAS, as previously directed by the City Council, City staff has prepared policy
updates and technical amendments to Title 2 of City Code; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing and has determined that the
proposed amendments will serve the public interest;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Municipal Council of the City of Holladay,
Utah as follows:

        Section 1. Amendment. Title 2 of the City of Holladay Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein
by reference.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or posting
or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.

         PASSED AND APPROVED this __ day of May, 2025.

                                                  HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                  By: ____________________________________
                                                       Robert Dahle, Mayor


[SEAL]                                            VOTING:
                                                  Ty Brewer                  Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Matt Durham                Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Paul Fotheringham          Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Drew Quinn                 Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Emily Gray                 Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Robert Dahle               Yea       Nay ___
ATTEST:

_____________________________
                                      TITLE 2
                                    GOVERNMENT

CITY COUNCIL 2.01
MAYOR 2.02
ELECTION AND QUALIFICATION 2.03
LEGISLATION 2.04
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES 2.05
CITY MANAGER 2.06
APPOINTED OFFICERS 2.07
COMMITTEES 2.08
EMPLOYEE APPEALS HEARING OFFICER 2.09
GOVERNMENT RECORDS AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT ACT 2.10
PROCUREMENT 2.11


                                     CHAPTER 2.01
                                     CITY COUNCIL

SECTION:
2.01.010: Governing Body
2.01.020: Election To Office
2.01.030: Powers And Duties
2.01.040: Meetings
2.01.050: Open Meetings Law
2.01.060: Notice Of Meetings
2.01.070: Agenda
2.01.080: Minutes And Recordings
2.01.090: Mayor Presides
2.01.100: Quorum
2.01.110: Voting
2.01.120: Reconsideration
2.01.130: Summary Action
2.01.140: Rules Of Order And Procedure
2.01.150: Attendance
2.01.160: Disorderly Conduct
2.01.170: Required Attendance Of Witnesses And Production Of Evidence
2.01.180: Council Committees

2.01.010: GOVERNING BODY:

The governing body of the City of Holladay shall be a six (6) member council consisting of
five (5) council members elected from districts of the City and the Mayor, who shall be
elected at large. Districts shall be constituted as determined by ordinance of the City
Council. The council is hereinafter referred to as the "City Council".

2.01.020: ELECTION TO OFFICE:

The Mayor of the City shall be elected in an at large election. Council members shall be
elected from geographic districts of the City. The five (5) council districts shall be
substantially equal in population. A council member must be a qualified elector residing in
the district from which he or she is elected. The term of office for the Mayor and council
members shall be four (4) years, except when the term may be shorter by virtue of an
appointment to fill a remaining term.

2.01.030: POWERS AND DUTIES:

The City Council is the legislative body of the City and shall exercise the legislative powers
and perform the legislative duties and functions of the City and may perform such other
functions as may be specifically provided or necessarily implied by law.

2.01.040: MEETINGS:

   A. Regular Meetings: The City Council shall hold regular meetings to conduct the
      business of the City at least once each month and shall prescribe by ordinance the
      time and place for holding its regular meetings. The City Council shall prepare and
      provide notice of its annual meeting schedule in accordance with applicable law.

   B. Special Meetings: If at any time the business of the City requires a special meeting of
      the City Council, such a special meeting may be ordered by the Mayor or any two (2)
      council members. Notice of the special meeting shall be provided in accordance with
      the provisions of the Utah open and public meetings act and Utah Code Annotated
      section 10-3-502, as amended. The order of the special meeting shall be entered into
      the minutes of the City Council.

   C. Closed Meetings: The affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the City Council
      present at an open meeting for which notice is given and a quorum is present may
      call a closed meeting to discuss certain items as provided under Utah Code
      Annotated section 52-4-205, as amended. The reason or reasons for holding a closed
      meeting and the vote, by name, of each member of the City Council, either for or
      against the motion to hold the closed meeting, shall be entered on the minutes of the
      meeting. No ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, contract, or appointment shall
      be approved at a closed meeting.

   D. Electronic Meetings: The City Council may convene and conduct an electronic
      meeting in accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 52-4-
      207, as amended. The City Council shall establish and adopt written rules and
      procedures governing such electronic meetings.
2.01.050: OPEN MEETINGS LAW:

All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the public, except closed meetings, and
shall be conducted in accordance with the open and public meetings act as set forth in Utah
Code Annotated section 52-4-101 et seq., as amended.

2.01.060: NOTICE OF MEETINGS:

The City shall give public notice at least once each year of its annual meeting schedule.
Notice of the agenda, date, time and place of each of its meetings, other than emergency
meetings, shall be in accordance with Utah Code Annotated sections 52-4-202, as amended,
and 63F-1-701, as amended, regarding postings on the Utah public notice website.

2.01.070: AGENDA:

A written agenda for each regular meeting shall be prepared by the City Manager or his or
her designee and approved by the Mayor or Mayor pro tempore in the Mayor's absence.
Any two members of the City Council may request that one or more items be placed on the
agenda. Each agenda shall provide reasonable specificity to notify the public as to the
topics to be considered at the public meeting and topics discussed at the meeting shall
comply with applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 52-4-202, as amended.

2.01.080: MINUTES AND RECORDINGS:

Except as otherwise provided by law, written minutes and a recording shall be kept of all
meetings of the City Council in accordance with the provisions set forth in Utah Code
Annotated sections 52-4-203 and 206, as amended, and shall be presented to the City
Council for review, correction and approval. The City Council shall establish and implement
procedures for approval of written minutes of its meetings.

2.01.090: MAYOR PRESIDES:

The Mayor shall be the chairperson and preside at the meetings of the City Council. In the
absence of the Mayor or because of his or her inability or refusal to act, the City Council
may elect a member of the City Council to preside over the meeting as Mayor pro tempore
in accordance with the procedures set forth in chapter 2.02 of this title.

2.01.100: QUORUM:

No action of the City Council shall be official or of any effect except when a quorum of the
council members are present, provided, that fewer than a quorum may adjourn a meeting.
The number of council members necessary to constitute a quorum is four (4).

2.01.110: VOTING:
   A. How Taken: A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all ordinances,
      resolutions, and any action which would create a liability against the City and in any
      other case at the request of any member of the City Council by a "yes" or a "no" vote.
      Every resolution or ordinance shall be in writing before the vote is taken. A written
      resolution or ordinance may be amended by oral motion.

   B. Number Required: The minimum number of "yes" votes required to pass any
      ordinance, resolution, or to take any action by the City Council, unless otherwise
      prescribed by law, shall be a majority of the voting members of the City Council
      without considering any vacancy in the City Council. Any ordinance, resolution, or
      motion of the City Council having fewer favorable votes than required herein shall
      be deemed defeated and invalid. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a council meeting
      may be adjourned by a majority vote of the council even though the majority is less
      than required herein, and a majority of the council members, regardless of number,
      may fill any vacancy in the council as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-
      1-510, as amended.

2.01.120: RECONSIDERATION:

Any action taken by the City Council shall not be reconsidered or rescinded at any special
meeting unless the number of members of the City Council present at the special meeting is
equal to or greater than the number of members present at the meeting when the action
was approved.

2.01.130: SUMMARY ACTION:

When two (2) or more agenda items for a City Council meeting are determined by the City
Manager to be of a routine nature, such items may be placed upon a summary action
calendar on the agenda. The summary action calendar may be voted upon by the council as
one matter and shall have the same effect as if a separate vote on each summary action
calendar item was taken. Prior to a final vote on the summary action calendar, any member
of the City Council may request to take any or all items on the summary action calendar off
the summary action calendar for discussion, debate or question. Any question, debate or
discussion regarding an item on the summary action calendar, except in the nature of
clarification or brief explanation of the content of an item, shall require a request to remove
the item from the summary action calendar. No items requiring a public hearing shall be
placed on the summary action calendar.

2.01.140: RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:

   A. Adoption Of Rules: Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-606, as amended,
      the City Council shall adopt rules of order and procedure governing public meetings
      of the City Council ("rules of order and procedure"). All public meetings of the City
      Council shall be conducted in accordance with the adopted rules of order and
      procedure. The rules of order and procedure shall be made available to the public at
      each public meeting of the City Council and on the City's website. Members of the
       City Council are elected officers within the meaning of the Utah municipal officers'
       and employees' ethics act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1301 et
       seq., as amended. City Council members shall comply with the provisions of the
       ethics act in all matters pertaining to the City and in public meetings of the City
       Council.

   B. Civil Discourse: Remarks and comments made in public meetings of the City Council
      should be relevant to the matters before the City Council. Speakers should speak in
      an audible and clear tone and refrain from attacking City Council members or others
      or their motives. City Council meetings should be conducted in a courteous manner
      to promote an atmosphere in which all points of view may be expressed and heard.
      Council members should not interrupt other members during discussion and
      debate. Remarks should be addressed through the Mayor

2.01.150: ATTENDANCE:

The City Council shall have the power to compel the attendance of its own members at its
meetings and to provide penalties it considers necessary for the failure to comply with an
exercise of authority to compel attendance.

2.01.160: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:

The City Council on a two-thirds (2/3) vote of its members may expel any person who is
disorderly and/or disruptive during the meeting of the City Council. The City Council may
also on a two- thirds (2/3) vote of its members expel or fine any council member for
disorderly and/or disruptive conduct. This section or any action taken by the governing
body pursuant hereto shall not preclude prosecution under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 2016-09, 5-26-2016)

2.01.170: REQUIRED ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES AND PRODUCTION OF EVIDENCE:

The City Council may require the attendance of any person to give testimony or produce
records, documents or things for inspection, copying or examination necessary or useful for
the governance of the City. The City Council may issue subpoenas in its own name in the
manner provided in the Utah rules of civil procedure or may by ordinance establish its own
procedure for issuing subpoenas under this section.

2.01.180: COUNCIL COMMITTEES:

   A. Generally: The City Council may from time to time delegate portions of its authority
      by resolution to committees composed of at least two (2) members of the City
      Council.

   B. Authority: Committees of the City Council shall be limited in authority to the specific
      assignment of the City Council and shall exercise their authority subject to a
      standard specified by the council in making the delegation.
   C. As A Whole: The authority delegated to any committee of the council must be
      exercised by vote of the committee as a whole and no individual committee member
      may exercise the delegated authority independently.

   D. Administrative Directives Limited: A committee of the council may not issue
      instructions or recommendations to the City Manager or other City employees other
      than for routine support services without express delegation of authority to do so by
      the City Council.

   E. Reporting: The committee may return any recommendation or suggestions to the
      City Council which may at any time extend, restrict, or otherwise alter the
      delegation of authority to the committee.

   F. Designation Of Chair: The assignment of a committee chair may be made by the City
      Council when delegating any portion of its authority to a committee of the council.


                                      CHAPTER 2.02
                                        MAYOR

SECTION:
2.02.010: General Powers
2.02.020: Voting Authority
2.02.030: Mayor Pro Tem
2.02.040: Restrictions And Appointments

2.02.010: GENERAL POWERS:

The Mayor of the City of Holladay shall be the Chief Ceremonial Officer of the City, the Chair
of the City Council and may represent the City in external relationships. Subject to the
provisions of 2.11.290, the Mayor may execute contracts and interlocal agreements.

2.02.020: VOTING AUTHORITY:

The Mayor shall be elected at large and shall be a voting member of the City Council and
shall have the associated powers and privileges.

2.02.030: MAYOR PRO TEM:

In the absence of the Mayor or because of his or her inability or refusal to act, the City
Council may elect a member of the City Council to preside over the meeting as Mayor Pro
Tempore. The election of a Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entered in the minutes of the City
Council meeting at which he or she is elected. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall preside at the
Council meeting and perform, during the Mayor's absence, disability, or refusal to act, the
duties and functions of the Mayor. Any member of the City Council elected as Mayor Pro
Tempore shall still retain his or her power and authority as a member of the Council and
shall be entitled to vote as a member of the City Council on all matters.

2.02.040: RESTRICTIONS AND APPOINTMENTS:

The Mayor may not serve as the City Recorder or the City Treasurer.


                                  CHAPTER 2.03
                           ELECTION AND QUALIFICATION

SECTION:
2.03.010: Elections
2.03.020: Declaration Of Candidacy
2.03.030: Nomination Petition
2.03.040: Residency And Registered Voter Requirements
2.03.050: Term Of Office
2.03.060: Vacancies
2.03.070: Oath Of Office
2.03.080: Bond
2.03.090: Salaries
2.03.100: Transfer Of Records
2.03.110: Campaign Finance Statement
2.03.120: Ethics Act

2.03.010: ELECTIONS:

The offices of Mayor and council member shall be filled by election of the registered voters
of the City of Holladay in a municipal election held on the Tuesday after the first Monday in
November, as provided in title 10, chapter 3 of the Utah Code Annotated. Municipal
elections for the offices of Mayor or council member shall be conducted in the manner
provided in the Utah election code, set forth in title 20A of the Utah Code Annotated.
Council members shall be elected from districts, as more fully set forth below. The Mayor
shall be elected at large. Primary elections, as required, shall be conducted in accordance
with all applicable provisions of state law.

2.03.020: DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY:

Any eligible and qualified person desiring to run for the elected municipal offices of Mayor
or council member shall file a declaration of candidacy with the City Recorder in
accordance with the filing requirements set forth in title 20A, chapter 9 of the Utah Code
Annotated.

2.03.030: NOMINATION PETITION:
Any resident of the City may nominate a candidate for elected municipal office by filing a
nomination petition with the City Recorder in accordance with the filing requirements set
forth in title 20A, chapter 9 of the Utah Code Annotated.

2.03.040: RESIDENCY AND REGISTERED VOTER REQUIREMENTS:

Persons eligible to file a declaration of candidacy or to be nominated for the elected office
of Mayor or council member shall have been a resident of the City of Holladay for at least
three hundred sixty five (365) consecutive days immediately before the date of the
election, shall be a registered voter of the City, and shall meet the requirements of Utah
Code Annotated section 20A-9-203, as amended. Each person elected to the office of Mayor
or council member shall maintain residency within the boundaries of the City and for
council members the appropriate district during his or her term of office. If a person
elected to the office of Mayor or council member establishes his or her principal place of
residence outside the municipality or the appropriate district during his or her term of
office, the office is automatically vacant. If a person elected to the office of Mayor or council
member is absent from the City anytime during his or her term of office for a continuous
period of more than sixty (60) days without the consent of the City Council, that person's
elected office is automatically vacant.

2.03.050: TERM OF OFFICE:

Persons elected to the office of Mayor or council member shall begin their term of office at
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the first Monday in January following their election, and
shall continue in office for four (4) years thereafter and until their respective successors
are chosen and qualified, except in case of death, resignation, removal, or disqualification
from office.

2.03.060: VACANCIES:

Vacancies in the offices of Mayor or council member shall be filled in accordance with the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510, as amended.

2.03.070: OATH OF OFFICE:

   A. Required: All elected officials shall take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of
      office before entering upon the duties of their respective offices. Elected officials
      shall take their oath of office at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the first Monday in
      January following their election or as soon thereafter as is practical.

   B. Administered: The oath of office shall be administered by the City Recorder, any
      judge, or any notary public.

   C. Filed: All oaths of office shall be filed with the City Recorder.
   D. Failure To Comply: No official act of any officer shall be invalid for the reason that he
      or she failed to take the oath of office.

2.03.080: FIDELITY BONDS AND THEFT OR CRIME INSURANCE:

   A. Required: All elected officers, appointees and employees shall be bonded or insured
      as required by state law. The City Council shall prescribe the amount of a general
      fidelity bond or have in place theft or crime insurance acquired for each municipal
      officer.

   B. The premium charge required by this section shall be paid for by the City.

2.03.090: SALARIES:

Elected officers shall receive such compensation for their services as the City Council may
fix or amend by ordinance in accordance with the notice and hearing requirements set
forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-818, as amended. The compensation of elected
officers shall be paid at least monthly. City staff, as part of the regular budget process, may
review the appropriateness of the compensation received by the Mayor and City Council
members and recommend adjustments thereto as deemed appropriate, taking into
consideration the impact of inflation, consumer price index, and the compensation of
elected officials in nearby cities of similar size.

2.03.100: TRANSFER OF RECORDS:

Every officer of the City upon expiration of his or her term for any cause whatsoever shall,
within five (5) days after notification and request to do so, deliver to his or her successor
all books and records, electronic data and any technology which may be the property of the
City.

2.03.110: CAMPAIGN FINANCE STATEMENT:

Statement Required: Each candidate for municipal office shall comply with the provisions
of Section 10-3-208 of the Utah Code Annotated in the filing of campaign finance disclosure
statements.

2.03.120: ETHICS ACT:

All elected officers, appointed officers and employees of the City shall comply with the
provisions, conditions and requirements of the Utah municipal officers' and employees'
ethics act as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1301 et seq., as amended.


                                       CHAPTER 2.04
                                       LEGISLATION
SECTION:
2.04.010: Ordinances
2.04.020: Resolutions
2.04.030: Public Records

2.04.010: ORDINANCES:

   A. Legislative Power: Except as otherwise specifically provided, the City Council shall
      exercise its legislative powers through ordinances.

   B. Extent Of Power: The City Council may pass any ordinance to regulate, require,
      prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity, business, conduct or condition
      authorized by law.

   C. Form: Any ordinance passed by the City Council shall contain and be in substantially
      the order and form as set forth in Utah Code Annotated Section 10-3-704, as
      amended. No ordinance shall be void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform
      to certain provisions of said law.

   D. Effective Date: Unless otherwise provided in the ordinance, ordinances shall become
      effective twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days after final
      passage by the City Council, whichever is sooner. Ordinances may become effective
      at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so provided in the ordinance.

   E. Signed: Ordinances passed or enacted by the City Council, before taking effect, shall
      be signed by the Mayor, or if he is absent, by the Mayor pro tempore .

   F. Publication: All ordinances, before taking effect, shall be posted and/or published as
      required by law.

   G. Recording: The City Recorder shall record, in a book used exclusively for that
      purpose, all ordinances passed by the City Council. The City Recorder shall give each
      ordinance a number, if the City Council has not already done so. The City Recorder
      shall make or cause to be made a certificate stating the date of passage and the date
      of publication or posting of the ordinance, as required. (UCA 10-3-713)

   H. Prima Facie Evidence: The record and certificate prepared by the City Recorder, or a
      certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage, and
      publication or posting of the ordinance or codification. In addition, the ordinances
      printed and published by the authority of the City Council, shall be prima facie
      evidence of the contents, passage, and legal publication of such ordinances, as of the
      dates mentioned in the publication in all courts and administrative proceedings.
   I. Proved Under Seal: The contents of all ordinances of the City of Holladay, the dates
      of passage, and the dates of publication or posting, may be proved by the
      certification of the City Recorder under the seal of the City of Holladay.

2.04.020: RESOLUTIONS:

   A. Administrative Authority: Unless otherwise required by law, the City Council may
      exercise any administrative authority by resolution.

   B. Form: Any resolution passed by the City Council shall be in a form and contain
      sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.

   C. Effective Date: Resolutions may take effect on passage or at a later date as the City
      Council may determine, but resolutions may not become effective more than three
      (3) months from the date of passage.

   D. Publication: Resolutions may become effective without publication or posting.

   E. Limitation: No punishment, fine, or forfeiture may be imposed by resolution.

2.04.030: PUBLIC RECORDS:

The ordinances, resolutions, and any other books, records, accounts or documents of the
City shall be kept at the office of the City Recorder. Approved copies shall be open and
available to the public during regular business hours for examination and copying in
accordance with the Utah government records access and management act, as adopted by
the City.


                                 CHAPTER 2.05
                         CONSTITUTIONAL TAKINGS ISSUES

SECTION:
2.05.010: Purpose And Intent
2.05.020: Constitutional Taking
2.05.030: Guidelines And Procedures For Review
2.05.040: Limitations

2.05.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:

The purpose of this chapter is to provide advisory guidelines to assist the City in identifying
and reviewing actions of the City which may involve the physical taking or exaction of
private real property that may involve constitutional taking issues in accordance with the
advisory provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 63L-4-101 et seq.
2.05.020: CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING:

   A. As used herein "constitutional taking issues" means actions involving the physical
      taking or exaction of private real property by the City that might require
      compensation to a private real property owner because of:

       1. The fifth or fourteenth amendment of the constitution of the United States;

       2. Article I, section 22 of the Utah constitution; or

       3. Any recent court rulings governing the physical taking or exaction of private real
          property by a governmental entity.

   B. Actions by the City involving the physical taking or exaction of private real property
      is not a constitutional taking if the physical taking or exaction:

       1. Bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest; and

       2. Is roughly proportionate and reasonably related, on an individualized property
          basis, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development on
          the legitimate government interest.

2.05.030: GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW:

Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a constitutional taking of the
owner's private real property by the City shall request a review of the final decision of any
official, employee, board, commission or council of the City implicating such constitutional
taking. The following guidelines and procedures shall be followed in the event such review
is requested:

   A. Final Decision: The person requesting a review must have obtained a final and
      authoritative determination, internally, within the City, relative to the decision from
      which they are requesting review.

   B. Time For Filing: The person requesting a review shall file his or her request in
      writing to the office of City Recorder within thirty (30) days from the date of the
      final decision that gave rise to the concern that a constitutional taking has occurred.

   C. Date For Review: The City Council or its designee shall immediately set a time to
      review the decision that gave rise to the constitutional taking claim.

   D. Additional Information: In addition to the written request for review, the applicant
      shall submit prior to the date of review the following information. An application
      shall not be deemed "complete" or "submitted" until the reviewing body certifies to
      the applicant that all the materials and information required herein has been
received. The reviewing body shall promptly notify the applicant of an incomplete
application.

1. Name of the applicant requesting review;

2. Name and business address of current owner of the property, form of
   ownership, and name and address of all principal shareholders or partners if a
   business entity is involved;

3. A detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there has been a
   constitutional taking;

4. A detailed description of the property alleged to have been taken;

5. Evidence and documentation as to the value of the property alleged to have been
   taken, including any evidence of the value of the property before and after the
   alleged taking, the name of the party from whom the property was purchased
   and the relationship if any between the person requesting review and the party
   from whom the property was acquired;

6. The nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such as, but not
   limited to, fee simple ownership, leasehold, etc.;

7. Terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of a full or partial
   interest in the property in the three (3) years prior to the date of application;

8. All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, including financing,
   offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the three (3) years prior to the
   date of application;

9. The assessed value of and the ad valorem taxes on the property for the previous
   three (3) years;

10. All information concerning current mortgages or other loans secured by the
    property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest rate,
    remaining loan balance and term of loan and other significant provisions,
    including, but not limited to, right of purchasers to assume the loan;

11. All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and offers received, if any,
    within the previous three (3) years;

12. All studies commissioned by the applicant within the previous three (3) years
    concerning feasibility of development or utilization of the property;

13. Itemized income and expense statements from the property for the previous
    three (3) years for income producing property;
       14. Information from a title policy or other source showing all recorded liens or
           encumbrances affecting the property; and

       15. Any other additional information requested by the City which is reasonably
           necessary in its opinion to arrive at a conclusion concerning whether there has
           been a constitutional taking.

   E. Review: The City Council or its designee shall hear all the evidence related to and
      submitted in connection with the request for review to determine whether or not
      the action by the City constitutes a constitutional taking as defined herein, including
      consideration of the following:

       1. Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real property bears an
          essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest;

       2. Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action taken by the
          City; and

       3. Whether the taking or exaction is roughly proportionate and reasonably related,
          on an individual property basis, both in nature and extent, to the impact caused
          by the activities that are the subject of the decision being reviewed.

   F. Decision: The City Council or its designee shall render a final decision on the review
      within fourteen (14) days from the date the complete application for review was
      submitted to the City Recorder. The decision of the City Council or its designee
      regarding the results of the review shall be given in writing to the applicant and the
      official, employee, board, commission or council that rendered the final decision
      that gave rise to the constitutional taking claim. When determined to be necessary
      and appropriate, the reviewing body shall make a recommendation to the official,
      employee, board, commission or council that made the decision that gave rise to the
      constitutional taking claim.

   G. Failure To Render Decision: If the City fails to hear and decide the appeal within
      fourteen (14) days, the acting body's decision or action is presumed to be approved.

2.05.040: LIMITATIONS:

The guidelines set forth herein and any decision rendered pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter are advisory only and shall not be construed to expand or limit the scope of the
City's liability for a constitutional taking. The City shall have no legal liability to any person,
firm or entity of any nature whatsoever and a court may not impose liability upon the City
for failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
                                      CHAPTER 2.06
                                      CITY MANAGER

SECTION:
2.06.010: Appointment Of City Manager
2.06.020: Functions And Duties
2.06.030: Intergovernment Cooperation

2.06.010: APPOINTMENT OF CITY MANAGER:

The City Council shall select and appoint by majority vote of at least four (4) affirmative
votes, an individual to serve as the City Manager. Said individual shall perform such duties
and responsibilities as set forth in this title. In the absence of the City Manager, a qualified
individual shall be appointed as the interim City Manager. In the event the Manager will be
absent from his or her position, or unable to perform the duties of the job for more than
three (3) consecutive weeks, the City Council shall approve and appoint an interim City
Manager.

2.06.020: FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES:

The City Manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of the City. He or
she shall have the power and duty to:

   A. Supervise the administration and enforcement of all laws, this code, and other
      ordinances of the City as they affect the administrative departments;

   B. Execute the policies affecting the administrative departments that are adopted by
      the City Council;

   C. Conduct performance evaluations and administrative pay adjustments as prescribed
      by this code and other City ordinances or policy;

   D. Authorize the issuance of administrative rules and outline general administrative
      procedures;

   E. Investigate, examine, or inquire into the affairs or operations of any department or
      office; and when authorized by the City Council, employ consultants and
      professional counsel to aid such investigations or inquiries;

   F. Exercise general supervision over all public buildings, parks and other public
      property under the control and jurisdiction of the City;

   G. Supervise the preparation and presentation of the annual budget for the City;

   H. Direct activities relating to contracts for services for the City;
I. Examine performance requirements, delivery schedules and estimates of costs of
   various contracts involving the City, to ensure completeness and accuracy;

J. Prepare bids, specifications, progress reports and other items that may be required
   in connection with contracts, or proposed contracts, involving the City;

K. Review bids and proposals from other agencies for conformity to contract
   requirements and help determine acceptable bids and proposals;

L. Appoint and remove administrative assistants, including a chief administrative
   officer, and with the advice and consent of the City Council, appoint department
   heads, all statutory officers, commissions, boards and committees of the City, except
   as may otherwise be specifically limited by law;

M. Remove department heads and officers and employees, commissions, boards and
   committees;

N. Exercise control of all departments, divisions and bureaus within the City
   government;

O. Attend all meetings of the City Council with the right to take part in all discussions
   and the responsibility to inform the City Council of the condition and needs of the
   municipality, and make recommendations and freely give advice to the City Council;

P. Appoint a budget officer to serve in place of the City Manager for the purpose of
   conforming with the requirements of the uniform municipal Fiscal Procedures Act
   for Utah Cities and in all other respects fulfill the requirements of that Act;

Q. Appoint, with the advice and consent of the City Council, a qualified person to each
   of the Offices of City Engineer, Recorder, Treasurer, Finance Director and Attorney;
   create any other offices as may be deemed necessary for good government, and
   make appointments to them; and regulate and prescribe the powers and duties of all
   other officers of the City, within the general provisions of law and ordinance;

R. Furnish the City Council with a report, periodically or as determined by ordinance,
   setting forth the amounts of all budget appropriations, the total disbursements to
   date from these appropriations, and the amount of indebtedness incurred or
   contracted against each appropriation (including disbursements and indebtedness
   incurred and not paid) and the percentage of the appropriations encumbered to
   date, which reports shall be made available for public inspections;

S. Execute agreements within certified budget appropriations on behalf of the City, or
   delegate by written executive order the power to execute such agreements to
   executive officials, subject to the procedure described in Utah Code Annotated
   section 10-6-138;
   T. When necessary, call on the residents of the City over the age of twenty one (21)
      years to assist in enforcing the laws of the State and ordinances of the City; and

   U. Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this title or may be required by
      ordinance not inconsistent with the form of government.

2.06.030: INTERGOVERNMENT COOPERATION:

   A. Information To City Council: The City Manager, or departments designated by the
      City Manager, shall provide such information concerning City finances, operations
      and procedures, as reasonably requested by the City Council and necessary for the
      City Council to fulfill its statutory duties, which are not privileged, private or
      confidential.

   B. Interference By Council Prohibited: No member of the City Council shall direct or
      request, except in writing, the appointment of any person to, or his removal from,
      office or to interfere in any way with the performance by the officers of their duties.
      The City Council shall not give orders to any subordinate of the City Manager either
      publicly or privately, but may make suggestions and recommendations regarding
      the work of subordinate employees to the City Manager.

   C. Investigations By Council Authorized: Nothing in this section shall prevent the City
      Council from appointing committees of its own members or citizens to conduct
      investigations into the conduct of any officer, department or agency of City
      government, or any matter relating to the welfare of this City, and delegating to
      these committees such power of inquiry as the City Council may deem necessary.


                                     CHAPTER 2.07
                                  APPOINTED OFFICERS

SECTION:
2.07.010: Departments
2.07.020: Office Creation
2.07.030: Vacancies
2.07.040: City Recorder
2.07.050: City Treasurer
2.07.060: City Attorney
2.07.070: City Engineer
2.07.080: City Finance Director

2.07.010: DEPARTMENTS:
The administration of the City shall be organized into departments and/or divisions, as
directed by the City Manager and approved by the City Council. Department heads shall be
at will employees of the City and shall serve at the pleasure of the City Manager. The City
may, from time to time, have and maintain a public works department or may contract for
the performance of public works services, at the discretion of the City Manager, and with
the concurrence of the City Council. In the event the City maintains a public works
department, the head of that department shall be an at will employee of the City, appointed
by the City Manager with the advice and consent of the City Council.

2.07.020: OFFICE CREATION:

The City Council may create any office deemed necessary for the government of the City of
Holladay and shall, by resolution or ordinance, prescribe the power and duties to be
performed by appointed officials.

2.07.030: VACANCIES:

The City Manager, with the advice and consent of the City Council, may appoint and fill
vacancies in all appointed offices provided for by law or ordinance. All appointed officers
shall continue in office until their successors are appointed and qualified.

2.07.040: CITY RECORDER:

   A. Appointment: The City Manager with the advice and consent of the City Council shall
      appoint a qualified person to the office of City Recorder.

   B. Office: The City Recorder shall occupy an office in the City hall or at some other
      place convenient thereto as the City Council may direct.

   C. Corporate Seal: The City Recorder shall keep the corporate seal. When certified by
      the City Recorder under the corporate seal, copies of all papers filed in the City
      Recorder's office and transcripts from all records of the City Council shall be
      admissible in all courts as originals.

   D. Meetings Of City Council: The City Recorder shall attend the meetings as assigned
      and keep the record of the proceedings of the City Council.

   E. Actions Of The City Council: The City Recorder shall record all ordinances,
      resolutions, and regulations passed by the City Council in the manner provided in
      this title.

   F. Contracts: The City Recorder shall countersign all contracts made on behalf of the
      City or to which the City is a party and shall maintain a properly indexed record of
      all such contracts.
   G. Bonds: The City Recorder shall maintain a list of all outstanding bonds of the City,
      including their purpose, amount, terms, date and place payable.

   H. Elections And Appointments: The City Recorder shall manage all municipal election
      procedures and requirements as provided in the Utah Code Annotated, as amended,
      and shall keep a record of all persons elected or appointed to any office within the
      City, including the date of appointment or election, term of office, date of death,
      resignation, or removal, and name of person appointed to fill any vacancy.

   I. Limitations: The City Recorder shall not serve as the City Treasurer.

   J. Records Of The City: The City Recorder shall keep all the books, records, accounts
      and documents of the City at the Recorder's Office. Such records shall be open for
      public inspection pursuant to the provisions of the City of Holladay Government
      Records Access and Management Act. Records shall be maintained in accordance
      with a Records Retention Schedule, consistent with State Retention Schedules and
      which may be approved by administrative order of the City Manager. The City may
      maintain records in an electronic format and may convert existing records to
      electronic or digital format.

   K. Additional Duties: The City Recorder shall perform such other and further duties as
      the City may provide by ordinance, resolution, regulation or directive.

2.07.050: CITY TREASURER:

   A. Appointment: The City Manager with the advice and consent of the City Council
      shall appoint a qualified person to the Office of City Treasurer.

   B. Custodian: The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money, bonds, or other
      securities belonging to the City.

   C. Collections: The City Treasurer shall ensure collections and receipt of all monies
      payable to the City, including taxes, assessments, licenses, fines, forfeitures, service
      charges, fees and other revenues of the City. The City Treasurer shall keep an
      accurate account of all monies received hereunder and shall verify the prompt
      deposit all such monies in the appropriate bank accounts of the City. The City
      Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the City separate and distinct from his
      or her own money.

   D. Receipts: The City Treasurer shall give or cause to be given to every person paying
      money to the City treasury, a receipt or other evidence of payment therefor,
      specifying the date of payment and the account paid.

   E. Checks: The City Treasurer may sign all checks prepared by the Accounts Payable
      Clerk and shall, prior to affixing said signature, determine or cause to be determined
      that sufficient funds are on deposit in the appropriate bank account of the City to
      honor such check.

   F. Warrants: The City Treasurer shall ensure the payment of all warrants in the order
      in which presented and as money available for payment thereof in the appropriate
      funds of the City. The City Treasurer shall make provisions for the payment of all
      warrants issued prior to signing any subsequently issued checks.

   G. Special Assessments: The City Treasurer shall ensure receipti all monies received by
      the City on any special assessment and shall apply the payments thereof to the cost
      of the improvement for which assessment was made.

   H. Accounting: The City Treasurer shall keep an accurate and detailed accounting of all
      transactions, receipts, collections, disbursements and other matters within the
      Treasurer's charge as provided by State law or as the City may by ordinance or
      resolution direct.

   I. Limitations: The City Treasurer shall not serve as the City Recorder.

   J. Additional Duties: The City Treasurer shall perform such other and further duties as
      the City Council may provide by ordinance, resolution, regulation or directive.

2.07.060: CITY ATTORNEY:

   A. Appointment: The City Attorney shall be appointed by the City Manager, with the
      advice and consent of the Council. The City may contract with or retain an attorney
      licensed to practice law in the State of Utah. The City may make a separate contract
      with an attorney or attorneys for the performance of criminal prosecutorial legal
      services. Attorneys under contract with the City shall work under the general
      direction of the City Attorney, and the City Manager and shall communicate with the
      City Attorney and City Manager as necessary to properly correlate their efforts.

   B. Duties: The City Attorney shall act as legal advisor to the City in all matters
      pertaining to contracts with or by the City or questions of legality arising out of any
      law, ordinance or otherwise. The City Attorney or counsel designated by the City in
      consultation with the City Attorney shall appear on behalf of the City in all suits at
      law or in equity in which the City is a party, and shall prosecute or defend them, as
      the case may be, in all courts until they are finally disposed of. The City Attorney
      shall advise all City officers in relation to their official duties, prepare and draft all
      such ordinances, resolutions and regulations as the City Manager may from time to
      time request and perform such other duties as the ordinances of the City and the
      general laws require or as the City Council may direct. The City Attorney shall attend
      meetings of the City Council and other meetings of the City when requested to do so.
      The City Attorney shall, when requested to do so, furnish written opinions on
      subjects submitted by the City Council or by the City Manager.
   C. Additional Duties: The City Attorney shall perform such other duties as the City
      Council may provide by ordinance, resolution, regulation, or directive.

2.07.070: CITY ENGINEER:

The City Council may, by ordinance, establish the office of City engineer and prescribe the
duties and obligations for that office. Each person appointed as City engineer shall be a
registered professional engineer under Title 58, Chapter 22, Professional Engineers and
Professional Land Surveyors Licensing Act.

2.07.080: CITY FINANCE DIRECTOR:

   A. The City Council may, by ordinance, create a director of finance position to perform
      the financial duties and responsibilities of the City Recorder as established by the
      Utah Fiscal Procedures Act.

   B. A director of finance:

       1. shall be:

          a. a qualified person; and

          b. appointed and removed by the City Manager, with the advice and consent of
             the City Council; and

       2. may not assume the duties of the City or town treasurer.

   C. The legislative body may adopt the financial administrative duties of the director of
      finance prescribed in the Uniform Accounting Manual for Utah Cities.


                                       CHAPTER 2.08
                                       COMMITTEES

SECTION:
2.08.010: General

2.08.010: GENERAL:

   A. Intent And Purpose:

       1. It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to encourage citizen involvement and
          obtain citizen advice and input by creating certain committees, councils, and
          commissions of the City as hereinafter discussed. Any and all committees,
      councils or commissions established pursuant to this chapter have no authority
      to bind the City or impose any conditions on the City or its citizens.

   2. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent or preclude the City Manager from
      establishing or creating executive committees, task forces, etc., to give advice
      and recommendations to the Office of the City Manager.

B. Composition; Appointment: Unless otherwise specifically stated in a committee,
   council or commission enabling ordinance, all committees, councils, and
   commissions established pursuant to the provisions of this chapter should be
   composed of at least seven (7) members, all of whom shall be appointed by the City
   Manager with the advice and consent of the City Council. Committee members shall
   be residents of the City. The appointed members shall serve as the decision making
   body for the committee. Committees shall make reasonable efforts to assure that
   voting committee membership is comprised of an odd number of members. Each
   committee may seek nonvoting members/volunteers who desire to participate
   consistent with the purpose and/or mission of the respective committee.

C. Term; Removal; Vacancies:

   1. Terms; Vacancies: Unless otherwise specifically stated in a committee, council or
      commission enabling section, the following provisions shall govern the
      membership on any committee, council or commission established pursuant to
      this chapter. The members shall serve for a term of three (3) years and may be
      removed by the City Manager only for cause, with the provision that the first
      appointment of two (2) members shall be for a term of one (1) year; the first
      appointment of the next two (2) members shall be for a term of two (2) years;
      the first appointment of the remaining member(s) shall be for a term of three (3)
      years; thereafter the members shall be appointed for three (3) year terms.
      Vacancies occurring through expiration of terms of appointment, death,
      disability, resignation or removal from the City, if applicable, shall be filled by
      appointment of the City Manager with the advice and consent of the City Council.
      Members shall not serve more than two (2) consecutive terms.

D. Rules Of Procedures; Meetings: Unless otherwise specifically stated in a committee,
   council or commission enabling section, each committee, council and commission
   established pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall formulate its own rules
   for the selection of a Chairman, that there shall be at least one (1) meeting of the
   committee, council or commission each quarter at City Hall, unless a different
   location for a meeting is approved by the City Manager. Each committee shall
   prepare written minutes of all meetings which shall be approved by each committee
   at subsequent meetings. The original approved minutes shall be maintained in the
   Office of the City Recorder.

E. Historical Commission: A Historical Commission is hereby created. The commission
   shall be composed of up to seven (7) members. Members shall be appointed by the
   City Manager, with the advice and consent of the City Council and shall serve terms
   of three (3) years. The initial terms of the members shall be staggered to provide for
   continuity. Members shall not serve for more than two (2) consecutive terms.
   Appointed members should, to the extent reasonably possible, represent all the
   council districts of the City. The purpose and duties of the commission shall be:

   1. To provide information to the City regarding the identification and
      documentation of local historic and archeological resources;

   2. To work towards the continuing education of citizens regarding community
      history;

   3. To research and preserve history of the areas that now comprise the City of
      Holladay;

   4. To sponsor events to share the history of the area with residents of the City; and

   5. To identify historic resources, including photographs, documents, and other
      media related to the area.

F. Arts Council: An Arts Council is hereby created. The council shall be composed of up
   to eleven (11) members. The council may also have non-voting ex-officio members
   as approved by the City Council. Members shall be appointed by the City Manager,
   with the advice and consent of the City Council and shall serve terms of three (3)
   years. The initial terms of the members shall be staggered to provide for continuity.
   Members shall not serve for more than two (2) consecutive terms. Appointed voting
   members should, to the extent reasonably possible, represent all the council
   districts of the City. The purpose and duties of the council shall be:

   1. To foster the visual and performing arts within the City of Holladay by creating
      opportunities for display and performance and by identifying those residents of
      the City with talent and ability that can benefit the community;

   2. To provide opportunities for the community to be benefitted by the performing
      and visual arts through the sponsorship and/or identification of community
      events providing such opportunities; and

   3. To provide information to the City Council and City administration regarding
      ways and opportunities to enhance the quality of life within the City through the
      support of visual and performing arts.

G. Tree Committee: A Tree Committee is hereby created. The committee shall be
   composed of five to seven (7) members. The committee may also have non-voting
   ex-officio members as approved by the City Council. Members shall be appointed by
   the City Manager, with the advice and consent of the City Council and shall serve
   terms of three (3) years. The initial terms of the members shall be staggered to
      provide for continuity. Members shall not serve for more than two (2) consecutive
      terms, unless a suitable successor cannot be found. Appointed voting members
      should, to the extent reasonably possible, represent all the council districts of the
      City. The purpose and duties of the committee shall be:

      1. To encourage the planting, maintenance and preservation of the City's tree
         canopy for the benefit of City residents;

      2. To encourage and administer programs, as directed by the City Council from
         time to time, regarding the City's inventory of trees; and

      3. To provide recommendations for the planting of different species of trees on City
         property.


                                CHAPTER 2.09
                      EMPLOYEE APPEALS HEARING OFFICER

SECTION:
2.09.010: Appointed

2.09.010: APPOINTED:

Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1106(7), the City hereby designates that the
hearing of employee appeals pursuant to the above referenced section shall be by a hearing
officer to be appointed by the City Manager. The City Manager may appoint the same
hearing officer or officers designated to hear appeals of land use matters pursuant to the
land use and zoning ordinances of the City of Holladay. The process utilized to hear
employee appeals shall observe all required due process protections and shall be
conducted consistent with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated Section 10-3-1106(3) -
(4). A final action or order of the hearing officer may be reviewed by the Utah Court of
Appeals by filing with that court a petition for review.


                          CHAPTER 2.10
          GOVERNMENT RECORDS AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT ACT

SECTION:
2.10.010: Purpose And Intent; State Provisions Adopted
2.10.020: Records Custodian And Management
2.10.030: Limitation On Disposal Of Records
2.10.040: Denials
2.10.050: Appeals
2.10.060: Confidential Treatment Of Records For Which No Exemption Applies
2.10.070: Criminal Penalties; Liability For Damages

2.10.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT; STATE PROVISIONS ADOPTED:

   A. Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of the City Council in enacting this chapter to
      adopt the provisions applicable to municipalities for the City of Holladay, guidelines
      and procedures for retention, and an appeals process in accordance with the
      government records access management act (hereinafter referred to as "GRAMA"),
      Utah Code Annotated, title 63G, chapter 2. All entities of the City shall comply with
      the provisions of this chapter and with GRAMA, and shall also comply with other
      federal and state statutory and regulatory recordkeeping requirements.

   B. Constitutional Rights: In enacting this chapter, the City Council recognizes two (2)
      fundamental constitutional rights: the right of privacy in relation to personal data
      gathered by the City; and the public's right of access to information concerning the
      conduct of the public's business.

   C. Access Restricted: The City Council also recognizes a public policy interest in
      allowing the City government to restrict access to certain records, as specified in
      this chapter, for the public good.

   D. Intent: It is the intent of the City Council:

       1. That all records of the City, which are defined by applicable Utah statutory and
          case law as public records, shall be made available to citizens within a
          reasonable time after request and at a reasonable cost as set forth in this
          GRAMA;

       2. To establish and maintain an active, continuing program for the economical and
          efficient management of the City's records as provided in this chapter;

       3. To provide guidelines for both disclosure and restrictions on access to
          government records, which are based on the equitable weighing of the pertinent
          interests and which are consistent with nationwide standards of information
          practices; and

       4. Favor public access when, in the application of this chapter, countervailing
          interests are of equal weight.

   E. Adoption Of State Provisions: Utah Code Annotated title 63G, chapter 2, parts 1 and
      3; sections 63G-2-201; 63G-2-202; 63G-2-205; 63G-2-206; 63G-2-601; 63G-2-602;
      and are hereby adopted as part of the GRAMA of the City and are made part of this
      chapter as if fully set forth herein.

2.10.020: RECORDS CUSTODIAN AND MANAGEMENT:
   A. Records Custodian Designated: The City Recorder is hereby designated the records
      custodian for purposes of GRAMA.

   B. Retention Schedule: For those records not covered under the Utah municipal
      general records retention schedule developed by the state archives, the City
      Recorder shall develop a retention schedule as approved by the state records
      committee.

   C. Documents To State Archives: The City Recorder shall provide to the state archives,
      all retention schedules, and all designations and classifications applied to record
      series maintained by the City, including a statement explaining the purposes for
      which record series designated private or controlled are collected and used by the
      City.

2.10.030: LIMITATION ON DISPOSAL OF RECORDS:

   A. Specified: Any City record which has been requested in accordance with this chapter
      and GRAMA, that is disposable by an approved retention schedule, may not be
      disposed of until the request is granted and fulfilled, or sixty (60) days after the
      request is denied if no appeals are filed, or sixty (60) days after all appeals are
      completed, pursuant to section 2.10.050 of this chapter.

   B. Litigation Or Audit Pending: No City record, disposable by an approved retention
      schedule, which is subject to pending litigation or audit shall be disposed of until the
      litigation or audit has been completed or resolved.

2.10.040: DENIALS:

   A. Notice Of Denial: If the City denies a records request, in whole or in part, it shall
      provide a notice of denial to the requester either in person or by sending the notice
      to the requester's address as provided.

   B. Content: The notice of denial shall contain the following information:

      1. A description of the record or portions of the record to which access was denied;
         provided, that the description does not disclose private, controlled or protected
         information, or information exempt from disclosure;

      2. Citations to the provision of this chapter, court rule or order, GRAMA, or another
         state statute, federal statute, or federal regulation that exempts the record or
         portions of the record from disclosure; provided, that the citations do not
         disclose private, controlled or protected information or information exempt
         from disclosure;

      3. A statement that the requester has the right to appeal the denial;
       4. The time limits for filing an appeal, and the address where an appeal is filed.

2.10.050: APPEALS:

Persons aggrieved by the City's classification or designation of a record, or of an access
decision or by a response to a record request may appeal the determination to the City
Manager. in accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Ann. Section 63G-2-401.

2.10.060: CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT OF RECORDS FOR WHICH NO EXEMPTION
APPLIES:

Notwithstanding the provisions regarding classifications and right of access contained in
this chapter, the City reserves the right to request a court to restrict access to a record
under Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-405.

2.10.070: CRIMINAL PENALTIES; LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:

   A. Prohibited Disclosure; Defenses: A City employee or other person who has lawful
      access to any private, controlled or protected record under this chapter, and who
      intentionally discloses or provides a copy of a private, controlled or protected
      record to any person knowing that such disclosure is prohibited, is guilty of a class B
      misdemeanor. It is a defense under this subsection that:

       1. The person released the information in the reasonable belief that the disclosure
          of the information was necessary to expose a violation of law involving
          government corruption, abuse of office, or misappropriation of public funds or
          property; or

       2. The record could have lawfully been released to the recipient if it had been
          properly classified.

   B. Prohibited Access: A person who by false pretenses, bribery or theft gains access to
      or obtains a copy of any private, controlled or protected record to which they are
      not legally entitled is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. No person shall be guilty
      under this subsection who receives the record, information or copy after the fact
      and without prior knowledge of or participation in the false pretenses, bribery or
      theft.

   C. Limitation Of Liability: In accordance with GRAMA, neither the City nor any of its
      agencies, officers, or employees shall be liable for damages resulting from the
      release of a record where the requester presented evidence of authority to obtain
      the record, even if it may be subsequently determined that the requester had no
      such authority.
   D. Intentional Refusal: A City employee who intentionally refuses to release a record
      the disclosure of which the employee knows is required by law or by final
      unappealed order of the City or a court is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.


                                     CHAPTER 2.11
                                    PROCUREMENT

SECTION:
2.11.010: Purpose
2.11.020: Application And Compliance
2.11.030: General Guidelines
2.11.040: Definitions
2.11.050: Bid Evaluation
2.11.060: Responsibility Of Bidders And Offerors
2.11.070: Right To Inspect Facilities And Audit Records
2.11.080: Reporting Of Anticompetitive Practices
2.11.090: Prequalification
2.11.100: Competitive Bidding
2.11.110: Competitive Proposals (RFP)
2.11.120: Minimal Purchases
2.11.130: Small Purchases
2.11.140: State Contract Purchasing
2.11.150: Recent Purchases By Another Government Agency
2.11.160: Contracting For Designated Professional Services
2.11.170: Contracts With Other Governmental Entities
2.11.180: Sole Source Procurement
2.11.190: Emergencies, Public Threats And Unforeseen Conditions
2.11.200: Procurement Protests
2.11.210: Sanctions
2.11.220: Remedies For Solicitations Or Awards In Violation Of Law
2.11.230: Routine Expenditures
2.11.240: Providing Information And Records
2.11.250: Blanket Purchase Order
2.11.260: Administrative Regulations And Policies
2.11.270: Authorized Contract Types
2.11.280: Signing Authority
2.11.290: Disposal Of Surplus Property

2.11.010: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that the City purchases goods and services in a
manner that ensures that all such purchases are made fairly, equitably, efficiently, and
economically and in the best interest of its residents.
2.11.020: APPLICATION AND COMPLIANCE:

   A. This chapter applies to agreements for the procurement of supplies, services and
      construction entered into by the City. This chapter applies to every expenditure of
      public funds by the City for public purchasing irrespective of the source of the funds.
      Any expenditure involving Federal funds shall comply with applicable Federal law
      and regulations. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the City from complying with
      the terms and conditions of any grant, gift or bequest that is otherwise consistent
      with law.

   B. The City may take any action with respect to purchasing, bidding and contracting
      that is in the best interest of the City, including rejecting any bid from a bidder in an
      adverse position to the City in a present, pending or threatened litigation. The City
      may also reject a nonresponsive bid, and may reject bids when the City's interest
      will be served, unless this rejection would be contrary to existing law or be
      considered arbitrary. Finally, the City may waive or modify requirements within a
      particular bid process when it is in the best interest of the City, and when it is
      consistent with mandatory applicable legal requirements and fair and equitable
      practices.

2.11.030: GENERAL GUIDELINES:

   A. The City Manager may act as the Purchasing Agent. The City Manager may delegate
      authority to purchase certain supplies, services or construction items to other City
      officials, if the delegation is necessary for the effective procurement of those items.
      The City Manager may designate a Purchasing Agent whose duties include
      procurement, soliciting bids and proposals, advising City departments regarding
      procurements, maintaining a bidders' list and vendor files, as well as records
      needed for purchasing. Responsibility rests with employees who purchase goods
      and services, department directors, and the City Manager.

   B. Purchasing Agent or any department or division may prepare, file or amend
      specifications, requisitions or quantity estimates for supplies and services.

      1. Purchases less than ten thousand dollars ($ $10,000) may be made with the
         approval of department directors or the City Manager, with or without
         competitive bids or quotes. Departments should take reasonable steps to assure
         fair pricing.

      2. Subject to the provisions of section 2.11.130, Purchases between ten thousand
         dollars ($10,000.00) and seventy- five thousand dollars ($75,000.00) shall be
         made only after soliciting at least three (3) formal quotes or completing the
         competitive bidding process.

      3. All purchases of or exceeding seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000.00) shall be
         made only after completing the competitive bidding process.
2.11.040: DEFINITIONS:

BUSINESS: Any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, individual, sole
proprietorship, joint stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.

BUSINESS DAY: Any day when the City administration offices are open for public business.

CONSTRUCTION: The process of building, altering, repairing, improving, or demolishing
any public structure or building, or other public improvements of any kind to any public
real property. It does not include the routine repair or routine maintenance of existing
structures, buildings, or real property.

CONTRACTOR: Any person having an agreement with the City.

DEPARTMENT: Any City department, commission, committee, board, or agency requiring
the procurement of supplies, services, or construction pursuant to this chapter.

DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: The City's appointed director of finance.

EMPLOYEE: An individual drawing a salary or wages from the City, whether elected or not;
any noncompensated individual performing personal services for the City or any
department, agency, commission, council, board, or any other entity established by the
executive or legislative branch of the City; and any individual serving as an elected official
of the City.

INVITATION FOR BIDS: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by reference,
utilized for soliciting sealed bids.

MANAGER: The City's appointed Manager.

PERSON: Any business, individual, union, committee, club, other organization, or group of
individuals.

PROCUREMENT: The buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, or otherwise acquiring of any
supplies, services, or construction, including description of requirements, selection, and
solicitation of sources, preparation and award of agreement, and all phases of agreement
administration.

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: Those services that are provided by a person skilled in the
practice of a learned or technical discipline. Providers of professional services often require
prolonged and specialized intellectual training, and profess attainments in special
knowledge as distinguished from mere skills. Disciplines may include, but are not limited
to, accounting, auditing, court reporting, experts in a specialized field, finance, law,
materials testing, medicine, and others.
PUBLIC AGENCY: A public entity subject to or created by the City.

PURCHASING AGENT: The City Manager or other persons designated in this chapter to
procure supplies, services, or construction on behalf of the City.

REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS OR RFP: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, utilized for soliciting proposals.

RESPONSIBLE BIDDER OR OFFEROR: A person who has the capability in all respects to
perform fully the agreement requirements, and the experience, integrity, reliability,
capacity, facilities, equipment, and credit which will assure good faith performance.

RESPONSIVE BIDDER: A person who has submitted a bid which conforms in all material
respects to the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids.

SERVICES: The furnishing of labor, time, or effort by any person, including professional
services.

SUPPLIES: All property, including, without limitation, equipment, materials, printing,
insurance, and leases of real property, but excluding land or a permanent interest in land.

2.11.050: BID EVALUATION:

   A. Generally: Bids, proposals, and related matters shall be evaluated using the criteria
      in this section.

   B. City's Evaluation Process: When evaluating matters, the City shall consider the
      following:

       1. Solicitation Criteria: The City shall consider the evaluation criteria stated in a bid
          or proposal package or other solicitation document.

       2. Policy Criteria: As further described in this section, the City shall consider
          whether a bid, proposal or other offer or submission is responsive to the City's
          request; whether the bidder or offeror is responsible; and whether any element
          conflicts with the other criteria of this chapter.

          a. Due Diligence: The City may take steps as it deems appropriate to verify and
             determine any matter. The City shall determine in its sole discretion what
             steps may be appropriate in light of the matters being considered and the
             resources of the City. The failure to discover any matter shall not preclude
             any subsequent evaluation or action.

          b. Records: In the manner it shall determine, the purchasing agent shall retain
             in the procurement file records relevant to a solicitation or award; provided,
   however, that if the award contract is approved by resolution of the City
   Council, the City Recorder shall keep the procurement file records.

c. Evaluating Responsiveness: To be responsive, a bid, proposal or other offer
   or submission must conform in all material respects to the terms of the City's
   solicitation documents. Such terms may include, without limitation, using bid
   forms, mandatory submittals, required securities, and appropriate
   substantive responses. Ministerial errors and other matters in a bid, proposal
   or other offer or submission will not necessarily render it nonresponsive,
   and the purchasing agent shall review such matters and determine whether
   the submission is responsive. The purchasing agent may evaluate
   responsiveness based on any additional reasonable criteria.

d. Evaluating Responsibility: To be responsible, a bidder or offeror must have
   the capability in all respects to fully perform the agreement requirements,
   and the integrity, capacity and reliability which will assure timely, proper
   performance.

e. Factors: The City may consider any relevant factors when evaluating
   responsibility, including, without limitation, the following:

       i. The bidder's capacity to perform the contractual requirements,
          including whether the bidder has available appropriate financial,
          material, equipment, facility and personnel resources and expertise,
          or the ability to obtain them. Without limitation, capacity may also
          include legal capacity to enter agreements, the ability to perform
          within required times, or the ability to perform any necessary future
          service and maintenance.

       ii. The bidder's ability, skill and quality of performance.

      iii. The bidder's character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience
           and efficiency.

      iv. The bidder's ability to work cooperatively with the City, including,
          without limitation, whether the bidder has previously failed to comply
          with City agreements or other requirements; nonpayment of sums
          due to the City; poor working relationships with or adversarial actions
          against the City; prior suspension or other proceedings by the City
          against the bidder; or failure to assist the City in determining
          responsibility.

f. Making A Determination: The submission of any bid, proposal or other offer
   or submission constitutes an agreement by the bidder or offeror to
   reasonably assist the City with its determination of responsibility.
g. Effect Of Determination: The City's determination of responsibility relates
   solely to a bidder's overall ability to perform for a specific procurement, and
   is not a general assessment of a bidder's capabilities.

h. Evaluating Specific Matters: For any bid, proposal, other offer, or submission:

         i. Tie Bids: Tie bids occur when identical prices are submitted from
            responsive and responsible bidders and that price is the low bid. The
            purchasing agent shall make an award in a manner that is beneficial to
            the City, and may make an award in a manner that will discourage tie
            bids. Such may include:

            (A) Award to the person closest to the point of delivery.

            (B) Award to the person who previously held the agreement.

            (C) Award to the person with the earliest delivery date.

        ii. Only One Bid Received: If the City receives only one responsive bid,
            proposal or other offer or submission, the City may make an award to
            that bidder or offeror if the purchasing agent determines that the bid,
            proposal or other offer or submission is fair and reasonable and
            conforms to all applicable requirements, and that other prospective
            bidders or offerors had reasonable opportunity to respond or that
            there is not adequate time for a resolicitation. The written
            determination and basis for decision by the purchasing agent shall be
            placed in the procurement file. Alternatively, the City may reject the
            sole bid, proposal or other offer or submission.

i.   Inspections And Tests: The City may perform inspections, tests and other
     evaluations in any manner conducive to the City's interest, including, without
     limitation, the use of third parties. All prospective and actual recipients of a
     bid or agreement shall provide all reasonable assistance and information
     required by the City to perform any such inspection, test or other evaluation.

j.   Modifying Submissions: After the time for submission, a bid, proposal or
     other offer or submission may be modified as follows:

         i. Confirmation: When it appears a mistake has been made, or when the
            City desires an assurance of any matter, the City may request a bidder
            or offeror to confirm in writing such bid, proposal or other offer or
            submission.

        ii. Notification Of Error: A bidder or offeror shall notify the purchasing
            agent of any error contained in a bid, proposal or other offer or
            submission within two (2) business days after bid opening or the time
    for submitting proposals unless the purchasing agent waives this
    requirement. The purchasing agent shall have sole discretion to
    determine whether to permit any such modification or withdrawal.

iii. Modifications By Agreement: The purchasing agent may agree with a
     bidder or offeror to any modifications so long as they do not prejudice
     fair competition or the City's interests. Modifications may include
     such matters as the following:

    (A) Time For Accepting: The purchasing agent and bidder or offeror
        may agree that a bid, proposal or other offer or submission will
        remain effective for a longer period of time than that stated in the
        bid, proposal or other offer or submission.

    (B) Subcontractor Or Supplier Changes: Any proposed change in
        subcontractors or suppliers must be submitted to the purchasing
        agent, and the purchasing agent may reject any such proposed
        change. The bidder or offeror will receive no additional
        compensation as a result of a change to any subcontractors or
        suppliers, and must continue to meet the requirements of any
        federally mandated program and other contractual and legal
        requirements.

    (C) Change In Specifications: The purchasing agent and bidder or
        offeror may agree to a change in specifications when such change
        is in the City's interest, is reasonably related to the work originally
        solicited, and would not be prejudicial to fair competition.

    (D) City's Correction Of Ministerial Mistakes: The purchasing agent
        may at any time correct mistakes in a bid or proposal that are of a
        ministerial or minor nature. Ministerial or minor informalities are
        clerical errors and matters of form rather than substance that are
        evident from the document, or insignificant mistakes or
        informalities that can be waived or corrected without prejudice to
        other bidders or offerors. They generally do not have a substantial
        effect on price. Examples include a failure to:

       (1) Sign the bid, proposal, or other submissions requiring
           signature, but only where they are accompanied by other
           materials indicating intent to be bound.

       (2) Acknowledge receipt of an addendum, but only if the materials
           demonstrate the bidder or offeror received the addendum and
           intended to be bound by it, or the addendum has a negligible
           effect on the bid, proposal or other offer or submission.
                     (E) City's Correction Of Mistakes Where The Intent Is Evident: If the
                         intent of the bid, proposal or other offer or submission is clearly
                         evident on the face of the document, the purchasing agent shall
                         correct it as intended and it may not be withdrawn. Examples
                         include:

                         (1) Typographical errors. Errors in extending unit prices.
                             Transposition errors. Arithmetical errors.

                         (2) Differences in written and numerical prices (written shall
                             control).

                     (F) No Withdrawal For Mistakes Where Intent Is Not Evident: If the
                         bidder or offeror's intent is not clearly evident on the face of the
                         document, the bid, proposal or other offer or submission may not
                         be withdrawn except as agreed by the purchasing agent.

                     (G) Correcting Errors In Judgment: Errors in judgment may not be
                         corrected, and the bid, proposal or other offer or submission may
                         not be withdrawn, except as agreed by the purchasing agent. The
                         purchasing agent may allow correction of an error in judgment if it
                         can be done without prejudice to other bidders or offerors. The
                         purchasing agent may allow withdrawal if it is in the City's
                         interest.

2.11.060: RESPONSIBILITY OF BIDDERS AND OFFERORS:

Bid and performance bonds or other security as specified on the City's bid form are
required on all construction contracts in excess of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) (or such lesser threshold as may be required from time to time by state law)
and may be requested for supply agreements or service agreements as the purchasing
agent deems advisable to protect the City's interests. Any such bonding requirements shall
be set forth in the solicitation. Bid or performance bonds shall not be used as a substitute
for a determination of a bidder or offeror's responsibility.

2.11.070: RIGHT TO INSPECT FACILITIES AND AUDIT RECORDS:

The City may, at reasonable times:

   A. Inspect the part of the plant, place of business, or worksite of a contractor or
      subcontractor which the City determines is pertinent to the performance of any
      agreement awarded or to be awarded by the City; and

   B. Audit the books, accounting and any applicable records of any contractor or
      subcontractor.
2.11.080: REPORTING OF ANTICOMPETITIVE PRACTICES:

When for any reason collusion or other anticompetitive practices are suspected among any
bidders or offerors, a notice of the relevant facts shall be transmitted to the City attorney.

2.11.090: PREQUALIFICATION:

Where deemed appropriate by the City, bidders, proponents and/or suppliers may be
prequalified for particular types of supplies, services and construction to determine the
responsibility of such persons.

   A. Standard Of Responsibility: Factors to be considered in determining whether the
      standard of responsibility has been met by a bidder or supplier in connection with a
      prequalification include:

       1. Availability of the appropriate financial, material, equipment, facility and
          personnel resources and expertise, or the ability to obtain them, necessary to
          indicate the capability of the bidder or supplier to meet all contractual
          requirements;

       2. A satisfactory record of performance;

       3. A satisfactory record of integrity;

       4. Legal qualifications to contract with the City; and

       5. Whether all necessary information has been supplied in connection with the
          inquiry concerning responsibility.

   B. Information Pertaining To Responsibility: In connection with a proposed
      prequalification, the bidder, proponent or supplier shall supply information
      requested by the City concerning the responsibility of such person. If such
      information is not supplied, the City shall base its determination of responsibility
      upon any available information or may find the bidder or supplier nonresponsible if
      such failure is unreasonable, as determined by the City.

2.11.100: COMPETITIVE BIDDING:

   A. Conditions For Use: The City may use competitive sealed bidding or other processes
      designed to assure competitive bidding except as otherwise provided in this
      chapter.

   B. Invitation For Bids: Each bid proceeding shall be commenced by the purchasing
      agent or designee issuing an invitation for bids, which shall include specifications
      and all contractual terms and conditions applicable to the procurement, and
      otherwise shall be in compliance with this chapter. All specifications shall be drafted
   so as to promote overall economy for the purposes intended and to encourage
   competition in satisfying the City's needs, and shall not be unduly restrictive. The
   policy set forth in this section applies to all specifications including, without
   limitation, those prepared for the City by architects, engineers, designers, and
   draftsmen.

C. Public Notice: All noticing shall be processed through the City Recorder or designee.
   Adequate public notice of the invitation for bids shall be given for a reasonable time,
   and not less than five (5) working days prior to the date set forth therein for the
   opening of bids. Notice will be shared on the public notice website and on other
   websites and in other appropriate forums. Notice may also be shared directly with
   potential providers or vendors. The public notice shall state the place, date, and time
   of bid opening.

D. Bid Opening: All bids shall be accepted and opened by the City Recorder or designee.
   Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more witnesses at the time
   and place designated in the invitation for bids. The amount of each bid, the name of
   each bidder, and such other relevant information as the purchasing agent deems
   appropriate, shall be recorded; the record and each bid shall be open to public
   inspection.

E. Bid Acceptance And Evaluation: Bids shall be unconditionally accepted without
   alteration or correction, except as authorized in this chapter. Bids shall be evaluated
   based on the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids, which may include,
   without limitation, criteria to determine acceptability such as inspection, testing,
   quality, workmanship, delivery, and suitability for a particular purpose. The
   invitation for bids shall set forth the evaluation criteria to be used. No criteria may
   be used in bid evaluation that are not set forth in the invitation for bids. Those
   criteria that will affect the bid price and be considered in evaluation for award (such
   as discounts, transportation costs, and total or life cycle costs) shall be objectively
   measurable.

F. Correction Or Withdrawal Of Bids; Cancellation Of Awards: Correction or
   withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids before or after bid opening, or
   cancellation of awards or agreements based on such bid mistakes, may be permitted
   by the purchasing agent where appropriate. Mistakes discovered before bid opening
   may be modified or withdrawn by written, digital or facsimile notice received in the
   office designated in the invitation for bids prior to the time set for bid opening. After
   bid opening, corrections in bids shall be permitted only to the extent that the bidder
   can show by clear and convincing evidence that a mistake of a nonjudgmental
   character was made, the nature of the mistake, and the bid price actually intended.
   After the bid opening, no changes in bid prices or other provisions of bids
   prejudicial to the interest of the City or fair competition shall be permitted. In lieu of
   bid correction, a low bidder alleging a material mistake of fact may be permitted to
   withdraw its bid if:
      1. The mistake is clearly evident on the face of the bid document but the intended
         correct bid is not similarly evident; or

      2. The bidder submits evidence which clearly and convincingly demonstrates that a
         mistake was made. All decisions to permit the correction or withdrawal of bids,
         or to cancel awards or agreements based on bid mistakes, shall be supported by
         a written determination made by the purchasing agent.

   G. Award: Award shall be made with reasonable promptness by reasonable notice to
      the lowest responsible and responsive bidder whose bid meets the requirements
      and criteria set forth in the invitation for bids, unless otherwise provided for in this
      chapter. Such notice shall be sent by mail, electronic mail and/or by posting on the
      City's website.

   H. Multistep Sealed Bidding: When it is considered impractical to prepare an initial
      purchase description to support an award based on price, an invitation for bids may
      be issued requesting the submission of unpriced offers to be followed by an
      invitation for bids limited to those bidders whose offers have been determined to be
      technically acceptable under the criteria set forth in the first solicitation.

   I. Cancellation Of Invitation For Bids: An invitation for bids or other solicitation may
      be canceled, or any or all bids or proposals may be rejected in whole or in part, as
      may be specified in the solicitation, when it is in the City's interest. Each solicitation
      issued by the City shall state that the solicitation may be canceled and that any bid
      or proposal may be rejected in whole or in part when in the best interests of the
      City. Notice of cancellation shall be sent to all persons responding to the solicitation,
      which notice shall identify the solicitation, explain the reason for cancellation and,
      where appropriate, explain that an opportunity will be given to compete on any
      resolicitation or any future procurement of similar items.

2.11.110: COMPETITIVE PROPOSALS (RFP):

   A. Conditions For Use: When the purchasing agent determines in writing that the use
      of competitive bidding is either not practicable or not advantageous to the City, a
      purchase may be made by use of the competitive proposals method described in this
      section.

   B. Request For Proposals: Competitive proposals shall be solicited through a request
      for proposals ("RFP").

   C. Public Notice: Adequate public notice of the RFP shall be given in the same manner
      as provided in subsection 2.11.100C of this chapter.

   D. Receipt Of Proposals: No proposal's contents, except for the names of the offerors,
      shall be disclosed to competing offerors during the process of negotiation. A register
      of proposals shall be prepared containing the name of each offeror, the number of
     modifications received, if any, and a description sufficient to identify the item
     offered. The register of proposals shall be open for public inspection only after
     award.

  E. Evaluation Factors: The RFP shall state the relative importance of price and other
     evaluation factors, including the quantitative basis for evaluation. No criteria may be
     used in an RFP response evaluation that is not set forth in the RFP.

  F. Discussion With Responsible Offerors And Revisions To Proposals: As provided in
     the RFP, discussions may be conducted with responsible offerors who submit
     proposals determined to have a reasonable chance of being selected in order to
     clarify and assure full understanding of, and conformance to, the solicitation
     requirements. Offerors shall be accorded fair and equal treatment to discuss and
     revise proposals in writing and such written revisions may be permitted after
     submissions and prior to award to obtain best and final offers. In conducting such
     discussions, there shall be no disclosure of any information derived from proposals
     submitted by competing offerors, except for the names of the offerors.

  G. Award: Award shall be made to the responsible offeror whose proposal is
     determined in writing to be the most advantageous to the City, taking into
     consideration price and the evaluation factors set forth in the RFP. No other factors
     or criteria shall be used in the evaluation. The file shall contain the basis on which
     the award is made.

  H. Cancellation Of An RFP: An RFP or other solicitation may be canceled, or any or all
     bids or proposals may be rejected in whole or in part, as may be specified in the
     solicitation, when it is in the best interests of the City. Each solicitation issued by the
     City shall state that the solicitation may be canceled and that any bid or proposal
     may be rejected in whole or in part when in the City's best interest. Notice of
     cancellation shall be sent to all persons responding to the solicitation.

2.11.120: MINIMAL PURCHASES:

  A. Applicability: This section applies to the purchase of goods, supplies, materials,
     equipment or services having a total value of not more than ten thousand dollars
     ($10,000). So long as funds used for such purchases are part of the approved annual
     budget for the department making the purchase, purchases may be approved.

     1. Purchases of operational or construction related supplies or nonprofessional
        services having a total value of less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).

     2. Purchases of professional services having a total value of less than sixty
        thousand dollars ($60,000.00), but only when such purchase is approved in
        writing in advance by the department director, the purchasing agent and the
        Director of Finance and Administration.
      3. Purchases of construction work, but not architectural and engineering services,
         having a total value of less than thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000.00), but
         only when such purchase is approved in writing in advance by the department
         director, the purchasing agent and the Director of Finance and Administration.

      4. Purchases of building improvements or public works projects having a total
         value of less than thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000.00).

   B. Required Accounting Procedures: Any department making purchases under this
      section shall implement and follow accounting procedures that are acceptable to the
      Finance Director.

   C. Agreement: Any purchases of professional services or construction under this
      section shall be formalized using an agreement, and such agreement shall state the
      minimum terms necessary to protect the City’s interest. The fully executed
      agreement shall be filed with the City Recorder’s Office.

   D. Authorized Parties: Only the purchasing agent, department heads and employees
      designated by department heads may make minimal purchases under this section.

   E. Procedure: Minimal purchases may be made by any reasonable means.
      Documentation shall be retained by the purchaser and archived in the individual
      department's purchase records to demonstrate reasonableness.

   F. Manipulation Prohibited: Purchases shall not be artificially divided into smaller
      amounts to fall within this section. Such prohibition includes, without limitation,
      awarding numerous purchases to a single person for substantially similar
      performances, or by dividing the work required for a single project solely for
      purposes of making use of this section.

2.11.130: SMALL PURCHASES:

   A. Applicability: The following purchases may be made by the authorized parties set
      forth in subsection B., below:
      1. Contracts for operational or construction related supplies or nonprofessional
          services having a total value of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and not more
          than seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000.00).

      2. Purchases of building improvements having a total value of thirty-five thousand
         dollars ($35,000.00) and not more than the bid limit specified in Section 11-39-
         101(1) of the Utah Code Annotated.

      3. Purchases of public works projects having a total value of thirty-five thousand
         dollars ($35,000.00) and not more than the bid limit specified in Section 11-39-
         101 of the Utah Code Annotated.
   B. Authorized Parties: Only the purchasing agent, department heads and employees
      designated by department heads shall make small purchases as defined in this
      section. In making small purchases, the following procedures shall be used in lieu of
      a bid or proposal process:

       1. Solicitation And Award: Purchases shall be made by soliciting quotes from no
          fewer than three (3) vendors. Such solicitation may be completed in any
          reasonable manner including, without limitation, telephone inquiry, internet
          search or other price comparison. Award shall be made to the vendor offering
          the lowest responsible quotation.

       2. Records: Any department making a small purchase shall retain a record of the
          names of the prospective vendors contacted, those offering quotations, and the
          date and amount of each quotation, and shall document all quotes received.

   C. Manipulation Prohibited: Purchases shall not be artificially divided to fall within this
      section. Such prohibition includes, without limitation, awarding numerous
      purchases to a single person for substantially similar performances, or by dividing
      the work required for a single project solely for purposes of making use of this
      section.

   D. Small Purchase Modifications And Renewals: Any agreement solicited under this
      section shall not be modified in excess of the maximum dollar limit specified above,
      or renewed on a successive basis with the same party, without written approval of
      the purchasing agent or the Manager.

2.11.140: STATE CONTRACT PURCHASING:

Because an appropriate bid procedure has already been completed by the state of Utah, any
item that is a state contract or cooperative pricing contract item may be purchased without
following any otherwise applicable bid requirements, provided that the purchasing agent
or department head making the purchase shall document the state contract number used
and record that information in the purchase file.

2.11.150: RECENT PURCHASES BY ANOTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCY:

When purchasing supplies, material or equipment from a vendor who has been awarded a
bid for the same items from another governmental entity within the preceding ninety (90)
days, the price paid by the other governmental entity shall be deemed to be the lowest
price available for such items and the City need not follow any other bidding requirements,
provided that the purchasing agent or department head making the purchase shall
maintain in the purchase file appropriate documentation demonstrating compliance with
the requirements of this section.

2.11.160: CONTRACTING FOR DESIGNATED PROFESSIONAL SERVICES:
The City may procure the services of financial and legal advisors, planners, architects,
engineers, accountants, and construction Managers as defined by the laws of the state of
Utah, and other professional services, as negotiated based on demonstrated competence
and qualification and at fair and reasonable prices.

2.11.170: CONTRACTS WITH OTHER GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES:

Whenever the City agrees to make purchases together with another governmental entity,
and the agreement is entered in compliance with the solicitation procedures of that other
entity, the City shall be deemed to have complied with the City's solicitation requirements.
Contracted services from other governmental entities are exempt from any requirements
to obtain bids or quotes. Unless not legally required, all contracts with other governmental
entities shall comply with the Utah Interlocal Cooperation act and shall be approved by
resolution of the City Council.

2.11.180: SOLE SOURCE PROCUREMENT:

   A. Definition: Without limitation, sole source procurement may arise when:

       1. The City needs a supply or service of a unique or specialized nature, and only
          one known supplier is reasonably available to meet the need.

       2. Specific parts, accessories, equipment, materials, services, proprietary items or
          other items are necessary to meet the City's needs, and there are no comparable
          items reasonably available.

       3. Items are procured for resale.

   B. Procedure: To use sole source procurement, the purchasing agent shall place a
      written determination in the procurement file after conducting a good faith review
      of available sources, stating why no other sources are reasonably available, or why
      competition would not be likely to produce other acceptable offers. Sole source
      procurement shall not be used only to accommodate a desire for a particular
      proprietary item unless the City has a very specific need for such item which can be
      justified in writing. The City shall be deemed to have a very specific need when there
      is a need to procure matching or compatible supplies and services and when other
      similar supplies and services would not be reasonably beneficial to the City's needs.
      The purchasing agent or designee shall negotiate and use appropriate means to
      obtain the best price available for any item procured under this section.

2.11.190: EMERGENCIES, PUBLIC THREATS AND UNFORESEEN CONDITIONS:

   A. Generally: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, and conditioned on
      prior appropriation of necessary funds by the City Council, the purchasing agent
      may make, or authorize others to make, emergency procurement of supplies,
      services, or construction items when there exists a threat to public health, welfare,
       or safety; provided that procurement in response to such emergencies, public
       threats or unforeseen conditions shall be made with such competition as is
       practicable under the circumstances. Procurement made on this basis shall occur as
       set forth in this section, subject, however, to any contrary requirements of, or
       procedures under, Utah state law or any emergency management plan for the City
       from time to time in effect.

   B. Definitions: The conditions specified in this section are defined as follows:

EMERGENCY CONDITION: Creates an immediate and serious need for supplies or services
that cannot adequately be addressed using normal procurement methods. Such a need may
arise by reason of a natural disaster, epidemic, riot, equipment failure or other reason.

PUBLIC THREATS: Circumstances that appear likely to adversely impact the public's health,
welfare, convenience or safety. They may arise when circumstances appear to create a risk
of environmental contamination, traffic congestion or hazards, disruption of utility or other
public services, or other matters.

UNFORESEEN CONDITION: Creates a need to procure supplies or services within time
frames that could not reasonably be anticipated or accommodated under normal
procurement methods.

   C. Procedure: The purchasing agent shall examine the circumstances and determine
      whether they constitute a condition set forth above. If so, the purchasing agent may
      take any action required by such condition. The purchasing agent shall place in the
      procurement file a written determination and explanation of the condition.
      Procurement should be as competitive as possible under the circumstances, but
      priority shall be given to meeting the needs of the emergency or combating the
      public threat. Only those supplies and services impacted by the condition in
      question may be acquired under this section.

2.11.200: PROCUREMENT PROTESTS:

Any actual or prospective bidder or offeror who is aggrieved in connection with the
solicitation or award of a contract for procurement may protest the procurement by filing a
written protest with the purchasing agent. The protest shall contain the following
information:

   A. The protesting party's name, mailing address and daytime telephone number, the
      signature of the protesting party or the attorney for the protesting party, and the
      date the protest is signed; and

   B. The relief sought, a statement of facts and a recitation of the reasons and legal
      authority in support of the protest sufficient to permit review.
C. Protests shall be submitted prior to the closing date for receiving bids or proposals
   unless the protestor did not know and could not reasonably have known of the facts
   giving rise to the protest prior to such time, but in any event, all protests shall be
   submitted within five (5) business days after the closing date for receiving bids or
   proposals.

D. The City may proceed with the procurement despite the protest, except that the
   purchasing agent may suspend the procurement process for so long as they
   determine is appropriate.

E. The purchasing agent may designate another individual to assist in reviewing the
   matter, which assistance may include finding facts, analyzing the protest, and
   making recommendations to the purchasing agent.

F. The purchasing agent or designee may request additional information from the
   protesting party or from other persons to make a determination. The protesting
   party shall provide all information requested by the purchasing agent reasonably
   needed to decide the protest except information which is protected from disclosure
   by law, or which could reasonably be expected to result in unfair competitive injury
   to the protestor.

G. The purchasing agent shall review and decide protests, and shall issue a written
   determination to the protesting party within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of
   the protest.

H. The protesting party may appeal the written decision of the purchasing agent by
   filing a written appeal with the Manager within five (5) business days of the
   purchasing agent's written determination. Unless otherwise agreed to by the City
   and the appellant, the hearing shall be held no sooner than five (5) business days
   and no later than thirty (30) business days after the date that the appeal is filed.

I. At the hearing before the Manager, the appellant and the City's representative shall
   be allowed to testify, present evidence, and comment on the issues. The Manager
   also may allow other interested persons to testify, comment or provide evidence on
   the issues.

J. No later than fifteen (15) business days after the hearing, the Manager shall issue a
   signed order either granting the appeal in whole or in part, or upholding the
   determination of the purchasing agent in whole or in part. The order of the Manager
   shall include:

   1. The decision, and any reasons for the decision the Manager may wish to provide;
      and

   2. A statement that any party to the appeal may appeal the decision to the district
      court.
   K. If the Manager fails to issue a decision within fifteen (15) business days after the
      hearing, said failure shall be considered the equivalent of an order denying the
      appeal.

   L. The Manager may appoint a person other than the purchasing agent to fulfill the
      Manager's responsibilities under this section.

2.11.210: SANCTIONS:

   A. It is unlawful:

      1. For any bidder or prospective bidder, or City employee or City officer, in
         restraint of freedom of competition or otherwise, by agreement with any other
         person, bidder, or prospective bidder, to bid a fixed price, or to "rotate" bidding
         practices among competitors unless specifically authorized by the City’s policies,
         rules and regulations;

      2. For any person to offer or to give to any employee of the City or any member of
         his immediate family, any gain, whether in the form of money, services, loan,
         travel, entertainment, hospitality, promise, or other form, under circumstances
         in which it could reasonably be intended to influence him or could reasonably be
         expected to influence him in his duties concerning the award of any contract or
         order of purchase, or for any City employee to directly or indirectly solicit or
         directly or indirectly accept any such gift for such purpose;

      3. For any City employee or City officer to disclose, in advance of the opening of the
         bids, the content of any bid invited through the formal competitive bidding
         procedure;

      4. For any City employee or City officer to actively participate in the awarding of a
         contract from which he will directly benefit; and

      5. For any City employee or City officer or other person to appropriate for personal
         or private use any item of public property.

   B. Any City employee or City officer committing any of the foregoing acts may be
      discharged or suspended from employment, and the City may seek additional
      appropriate legal redress.

   C. At the discretion of the City Council, the following contracts are voidable:

      1. Contracts which result from a conflict of interest under this chapter or other
         applicable law;
     2. Contracts awarded to a person or firm that tried to influence the award of such
        contract by offering something of value to any City officer or City employee; and

     3. Contracts awarded by a City officer or City employee circumventing the
        requirements of this chapter or other applicable statute.

  D. The City Council hereby declares its intent that the contracts described in
     subsections C1 through C3 of this section would not have been entered into on
     behalf of the City if such misconduct had been discovered prior to the execution of
     the contract. In this regard, the council further states that no City officer or City
     employee has authority, either actual, apparent or implied, to negotiate or execute
     any such contract and that such contract shall, at the discretion of the City Council,
     be voidable, unless the action of the City officers or City employees in executing the
     contract is ratified by affirmative action of the City Council after the misconduct was
     discovered and made known to the City Council.

  E. All persons or firms responsible for any misconduct prohibited by this section shall
     be liable to the City for any losses incurred by the City resulting from any contract
     awarded due to such misconduct.

2.11.220: REMEDIES FOR SOLICITATIONS OR AWARDS IN VIOLATION OF LAW:

  A. Prior To Bid Opening Or Closing Date For Receipt Of Proposals: If, prior to the bid
     opening or the closing date for receipt of proposals, the purchasing agent, after
     consultation with the City attorney, determines that a solicitation is in violation of
     applicable law, then the solicitation or proposed award shall be canceled or revised
     to comply with applicable law.

  B. Prior To Award: If, after a bid opening or the closing date for receipt of proposals,
     the purchasing agent, after consultation with the City attorney, determines that a
     solicitation or a proposed award of an agreement is in violation of applicable law,
     then the solicitation or proposed award shall be canceled.

  C. After Award: If, after an award, the purchasing agent, after consultation with the
     City attorney, determines that a solicitation or award of an agreement was in
     violation of applicable law, then:

     1. If the person awarded the agreement has not acted fraudulently or in bad faith:

         a. The agreement may be ratified and affirmed, provided it is determined that
            doing so is in the City's best interests; or

         b. The agreement may be terminated and the person awarded the agreement
            shall be compensated for the actual costs reasonably incurred under the
            agreement, plus a reasonable profit, prior to the termination; or
       2. If the person awarded the agreement has acted fraudulently or in bad faith, the
          agreement may be declared null and void or voidable, if such action is in the
          City's best interests.

2.11.230: ROUTINE EXPENDITURES:

   A. Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, but subject to statutory
      compliance by the City's director of finance and treasurer, the Manager or designee
      may approve for payment routine expenditures such as utility bills, leases and
      payroll related expenses, provided that such expenditures are referenced in the then
      approved budget, that the funds are available for such expenditures, and that
      sufficient documentation is provided concerning such expenditures.

   B. The Manager or designee also similarly may approve payments for supplies,
      nonprofessional and professional services and payments on City approved
      contracts, provided that such expenditures are referenced in the then approved
      budget, that the funds are available for such expenditures, and that sufficient
      documentation is provided concerning such expenditures.

2.11.240: PROVIDING INFORMATION AND RECORDS:

   A. Information and copies of records under this chapter may be requested from the
      City Recorder pursuant to the government records access and management act
      ("GRAMA"), Utah Code Annotated Section 63G-2-101 et seq.

   B. Quotations shall remain confidential until all quotations have been received.

   C. Sealed bids shall remain confidential until the bids are opened, after which they
      shall be available for public inspection if provided by GRAMA, except for
      information or data that the bidder designates as proprietary or confidential.

2.11.250: BLANKET PURCHASE ORDER:

Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the Manager, purchasing agent or
designee may arrange blanket purchase orders with suppliers which shall authorize
continuing charges against the City. Such purchase orders shall be reviewed and renewed
at least once each fiscal year. The Manager, purchasing agent or designee shall, in advance
of any transaction negotiated upon such blanket purchase order, notify the merchant or
supplier of the specific City employee authorized to take delivery and sign the purchase
order. No billing against the City shall be valid as applied against the purchase order unless
the person taking delivery was authorized to do so and the blanket purchase order shall be
available for public inspection if required by GRAMA.



2.11.260: ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS AND POLICIES:
The Manager may prescribe administrative regulations and procedures which are
consistent with the provisions of this chapter and other written financial procedures
approved by the City Council.

2.11.270: AUTHORIZED CONTRACT TYPES:

As authorized by Utah Code Annotated 63G-6a-1205(4), the City is authorized to use any of
the following contract types:

   A. A fixed price contract;

   B. A fixed price contract with price adjustment;

   C. A time and materials contract;

   D. A labor hour contract;

   E. A definite quantity contract;

   F. An indefinite quantity contract;

   G. A requirements contract;

   H. A contract based on a rate table in accordance with industry standards; or

   I. A contract that includes one (1) or more of the following construction delivery
      methods:

       1. Design-build;

       2. Design-bid-build; or

       3. Construction contractor.

2.11.280: SIGNING AUTHORITY:

   A. The City Council may authorize the Manager to sign any agreement, purchase order,
      obligation, form, or other document. In addition, the Manager has authority to sign
      all documents necessary to allow the City to make minimal purchases and small
      purchases, as defined in this chapter, provided that funds have been previously
      appropriated by the City Council. When a specific appropriation has been made by
      the City Council, or for any contract or written obligations less than $100,000, the
      Manager may sign. In any document accepted by the City in which a signature is
      required or used, the City may authorize the use of an electronic signature, so long
      as it complies with the requirements of this section.
   B. The use of an electronic signature shall have the same force and effect as the use of a
      “wet” or manual signature if:

          1. The signature is capable of verification;

          2. The signature is under the sole control of the person using it; and

          3. The signature is linked to the data in such a manner that it is readily
             ascertainable if the data is changed after the signature is applied.

   C. The City Manager shall determine acceptable technologies and vendors under this
      section consistent with industry best practices to ensure the security and integrity
      of the data and the signature. The City Manager shall further determine the
      documents for which the City will accept electronic signatures.

2.11.300: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PROPERTY:

   A. Purpose: For purposes of this section, significant parcel of real property shall be
      defined as either a parcel or lot at least one-fourth (1/4) acre in size or having a
      value of more than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) or property of any
      size dedicated to public use. Significant personal property shall be defined as an
      item or a collection of like items having a value in excess of fifty thousand dollars
      ($50,000.00) as determined by reasonable estimates based on other like surplus
      property sales of public entities or like sales by private entities.

   B. Authority: The City Manager shall have the authority to sell, lease, convey and
      dispose of real and personal property for the benefit of the City as provided by Utah
      Code Annotated section 10-8-2, as amended.

   C. Requirements: Before the City may dispose of a significant parcel of real property,
      or significant personal property the City Council shall:

      1. Provide reasonable notice of the proposed disposition at least fourteen (14) days
         before a scheduled meeting at which the City will hear public comment; and

      2. Hold a meeting at which the City Council accepts public comment on the
         proposed disposition.

      3. Close or remove property from public use, if necessary.

   D. Conditions, Limitations: All disposal, leases or subleases of such property of the City
      other than a significant parcel of real property, shall be made, as nearly as possible,
      under the same conditions and limitations as required by City ordinances and State
      law for the purchase and sale of property.
E. Methods Of Sale: The City Council may also authorize at its discretion and under
   such terms and conditions as it may deem desirable, fair and appropriate,
   considering intended use, property tax value and the interests of the City, the sale of
   any surplus property, through public auction or other method designed to best
   serve the interests of City residents and produce a fair return; the trade or exchange
   of any surplus property; and the lease or sublease of any surplus property.
                                      CITY OF HOLLADAY
                                     RESOLUTION NO. 2025-

         A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY APPROVING
         A FIRST AMENDMENT TO AN AGREEMENT WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY RELATING
         TO FUNDING FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITY CENTERED HEALTH
         PROGRAMMING.

        WHEREAS, the City of Holladay previously submitted a proposal to the County for the
application of County funding in support of Health programs within the City; and

       WHEREAS, the City and Salt Lake County, through the Salt Lake County Health Department,
previously entered into an Agreement provide certain funding to the City, on behalf of the City’s
Happy Healthy Holladay program, to support programs enhancing public health; and

      WHEREAS, the City and Salt Lake County desire to amend certain provisions of the
Agreement to extend the term and increase the amount of grant funding; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay has reviewed the First Amendment to
the Agreement with Salt Lake County and finds it is in the public interest and will promote the
public welfare to enter into the agreement with Salt Lake County;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

        Section 1.     Approval. That certain First Amendment to Agreement between Salt Lake
County and the City of Holladay, attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by
reference, is hereby approved. The Mayor of the City of Holladay is hereby authorized to sign
the First Amendment to Agreement for and in behalf of the City.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.

             PASSED AND APPROVED this        day of May, 2025.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Robert Dahle, Mayor

[SEAL]                                           VOTING:
                                                 Ty Brewer                  Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Matt Durham                Yea        Nay ___
                                                             County Contract: HLT24CCEBHOLLADAY




                                           FIRST AMENDMENT
                                                     to
                                               AGREEMENT
                                                  between
                                          SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                For its Salt Lake County Health Department
                                                    and
                                           CITY OF HOLLADAY
                              On behalf of its Happy Healthy Holladay Coalition


        THIS FIRST AMENDMENT is made and entered into this                      day of               ,
2025, by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY (“County”), a body corporate and politic of the State of
Utah, on behalf of its Salt Lake County Health Department, and the City of Holladay, a Municipal
Government of the State of Utah (“Contractor”). County and Contractor are collectively referred to
hereafter as the “Parties.”


                                                RECITALS

        WHEREAS, on or about April 17, 2024, the Parties entered into an Agreement (County Contract
#HLT24CCEBHOLLADAY whereby Contractor agreed to develop and implement a community-
centered, evidence-based prevention coalition with fidelity; and

        WHEREAS, the Agreement was effective April 17, 2024, through April 16, 2025 (“Initial
Term”); and

        WHEREAS, the Parties now desire to amend the Agreement to add funding; to modify the
effective date; to modify payment terms; and to exercise the option to renew.

    THEREFORE, in exchange for valuable consideration, including the mutual covenants and
agreements contained in the Agreement and this First Amendment, the Parties covenant and agree as
follows:

    1. To amend Section 2 of the Agreement, entitled “Consideration”, to read as follows:

        Contractor has been reimbursed $72,185.00 for services rendered under this Agreement during
    the Initial Term. Through this First Amendment, Contractor shall be reimbursed an additional
                                                        County Contract: HLT24CCEBHOLLADAY


$22,315.00 for the period of May 1, 2025, through June 30, 2025, to be accounted for under the First
Renewal Term.

    Contractor shall be reimbursed by the County in an amount not to exceed $94,500.00 in
OPG/SUBG funding and $10,000.00 in CTC for the July 1, 2025-June 30, 2026 time period. Total
consideration for the First Renewal Term shall be $104,500.00.

    Total consideration for the Initial and First Renewal Terms of this Agreement is $199,000.00.

    As additional funds become available, or if funds are reduced from state and federal sources for
the services provided under this Agreement, the amount may be increased or decreased by formal
written amendment to this Agreement.



2. To amend Section 3 of the Agreement, entitled “Payment”, to read as follows:

    Effective May 1, 2025, County shall submit invoices on behalf of Contractor. Contractor shall be
reimbursed on a 1/12th basis meaning each month through the contract year.

    For CTC dollars County shall submit a single invoice on behalf of Contractor.

    To receive payment, all reporting requirements as detailed in Section 5 of this Agreement must
be met. Payment may be withheld due to lack of data submission and adherence to reporting
requirements.



3. To amend Section 4 of the Agreement, entitled “Effective Date/Term” to read as follows:

    This Agreement shall be effective April 17, 2024, and shall expire on June 30, 2026 (“First
Renewal Term”), with County and Contractor reserving the right to terminate without penalty at the
end of the First Renewal Term. The Agreement may be renewed by written amendment for up to one
(1) additional one-year term at County’s discretion and as allowed by funding.


4. All other terms and conditions of the underlying Agreement not specifically amended herein shall
    remain in full force and effect.



                              [SIGNATURES ON FOLLOWING PAGE]
                                                       County Contract: HLT24CCEBHOLLADAY


                IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this First Amendment on the day
        and year first written above.

SALT LAKE COUNTY

By:
          Mayor or Designee

Date:


HEALTH DEPARTMENT

By:
         Dorothy Adams
         Executive Director

Date:

         Division Director Initials:    JS




                                                      CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                                      By:

                                                      Printed Name:

                                                      Title:

                                                      Date:
UPDATE
Rooted Together
History Walk, History Markers, City Hall Exhibits

HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
May 15, 2025
                                                                                            Holladay Local Match
                                                                                                   28.1%



Project Background
BEYOND THE WALLS OF A TRADITIONAL MUSEUM
Creating historical exhibit experiences in public spaces, where people and
facilities already exist, this project will add a history walk in City Park, history          Donations
markers at key locations, and history exhibits in City Hall.                                    0.7%



Total Budget $850,000                                                                                                                   #2 Grants
                                                                                       Revenue                                            71.2%
*plus $75,000 for trellis column refurbishment


Steering Committee & Staff Team
                                                                                                                         Contingency
Ty Brewer, City Council Member/ Liaison to Historical Commission                       Expenses                             2.7%
Sandy Meadows, Project Champion/ Former Chair Historical Commission                                                                    Design
Rita Wright, Vice Chair Historical Commission                                                                                          24.5%

Gina Chamness, City Manager
Jonathan Teerlink, Community & Economic Development Director
Jared Bunch, Public Services Director/ City Engineer
Megan Attermann, Arts & Culture Manager
Holly Smith, Assistant City Manager
                                                                                                                                                Research & Content
                                                                                                                                                       3%

Project Consultant
Riggs Ward Design


                                                                                            Fabrication & Installation
                                                                                                      69.7%
    Project Scope
    & Timeline




                                                                                          SAVE THE DATE!
                                                                                           History Walk
                                                                                          Ribbon Cutting
                                                                                        Oct 20 History Night

                            2024                                         2025


  Dec          Mar           Jun        Sept                 Mar          Jun            Sept

KICKOFF   RESEARCH    INITIAL DESIGN   FORMAL DESIGN   FINALIZE DESIGN   FABRICATION & INSTALLATION
          & CONTENT
New Project
 Highlights
Rooted
Together
Tree
Featuring White Oak Tree
Tree Committee Recommendation
Rooted
Together
Tree
Shed Mural
Poetry
Thresholds




             36 writing entries -
             5 selected for the project

             “Morning walks and mountains near,
             Holladay whispers, you belong here.”
                         BRITT KERSHNER
Interactive
Elements
History Markers
Scavenger Hunt & Locations
History Exhibits
in City Hall
Next Steps
 Finalize landscape design for Rooted Together
 Tree and Casto House areas.

 Execute interlocal with Salt Lake County to place
 history markers in Creekside & Olympus Hills Park.

 Finalize overall design, graphics, and text.

 Begin fabrication.

 Kickoff installation after 4th of July.




   Note: Rentals of gazebo and picnic pavilion in City Park
    are paused to accommodate construction schedule.
City of Holladay
FY 2025-26 Recommended Budget
UFA
Fire Services
Highlights
• 4.11% increase in UFA Contract Cost – approx. $126,242

                      Key UFA Budget Impacts FY25/26
UPD
Police Services
  Highlights
• Holladay’s percentage of case load increased causing an increase in share of
  shared service expenditures
• Added shared FTE mental health professional
• Added shared Officer
• Prior year use of fund balance not available in FY2026
Community and Economic
    Development
CED Staff
CED Expenses
   Budget
   Highlights
 • Inflationary Changes
 • Reduction – Small Business Assistance (35,000)
 • Business License Fee Study - $12,000
Community Development                               1,086,672                       1,085,989
Personnel Related Changes                                       0.5        85,617
Books, Subscriptions & Members                                         (1,500.00)
Public Notices                                                           2,500.00
Training                                                               (4,000.00)
Mileage Reimbursement                                                    (300.00)
Equipment Supplies & Maint                                             (3,000.00)
GIS                                                                    (1,000.00)
Professional Service (Minutes)                                         (2,000.00)
Professional Services                                                    (500.00)
Small Business Assistance                                             (35,000.00)
Janitorial                                                                 500.00
Business License Fee Study                                            (12,000.00)
Utilities                                                              (2,500.00)
Telephone                                                              (2,000.00)
Hospitality                                                             (500.00)
Building Inspection Contract                                            (25,000)
Administration
Admin Staff
 Admin
Expenses
     Budget
     Highlights
 •   Increase of $10,850 for replacement of City server, various PCs, and peripherals
 •   Increase in cost of software - $10,353
 •   Liability Insurance cost increase $29,000 elimination of City Hall Department
 •   Reduction of $15,000 citizen survey
 •   Reduction of $19,530 HB 411 governance implementation

Admin                                                    1,729,217                                  1,820,456
Personnel Related Changes                                                                49,556
Office Supplies; Memberships                                                               4,500
Mileage Allowance                                                                           (500)
Equipment Supplies and Maintenance                                                        (3,000)
Computer Support Contracts                                                                 4,460
Computer Hardware                                                                        10,850
Computer Software                                                                        10,353
Liab.,Surety Bds,Works Comp                                                              29,000
Janitorial                                                                                 2,200
Utilities                                                                                 (2,000)
Miscellaneous Expense                                                                      4,250
Hospitality                                                                                1,000
Promotional                                                                                 (250)
Bond Administration                                                                        2,000
Hearing Officer                                                                           (1,000)
Citizen Survey                                                                          (15,000)
HB 411 Governance implement                                                             (19,530)
Emergency Management                                                                       3,350
Rental Expense                                                                           11,000
Holladay City Budget
      FY25/26
    Key FY25/26 Budget Impacts

                                                     DEMAND ON      % INCREASE
                      DESCRIPTION
                                                     MEMBER FEE     (DECREASE)
Increased Ambulance Revenue                         $ (2,050,000)      -2.89%
URS Rate Decrease                                       (525,032)     -0.74%
Stress Test Cuts                                        (553,885)     -0.78%
Increased Interest Income                               (230,000)     -0.32%
COLA: 3.6% for All Employees                            2,334,251     3.29%
Market Adjustments for Sworn and Civilian                 272,135     0.38%
Health Insurance: 7.5% renewal rate                       440,679     0.62%
New Ambulance: Started January 2025 (8 FTE's)             350,890     0.50%
Fourth Battalion (3 FTEs)                                 647,259     0.91%
Payroll Administrator: Offest by OT reductions            106,666     0.15%
HR Technician: Offset by division reorganization          (3,622)     -0.01%
Fire Training Captain: Offset by OT reductions            130,114     0.18%
EMS Training Specialist: Offset by OT reductions           76,670     0.11%
Dispatch Center Increases                                 149,565     0.21%
Capital Fund Transfer: To prepare for 25/26 lease       1,257,684     1.77%
Liability Insurance Increases                              20,000     0.03%
Fuels Crew                                                 12,000     0.02%
                 Service Demand Proportioning –
                     Holladay City (4 Stations)

                            SERVICE DEMAND (2022-2024)   SERVICE DEMAND (2021-2023)   Percentage
    STATI ON - MEMBER        I NCI DENTS PERCENTAGE       I NCI DENTS PERCENTAGE       Difference

104 - Holladay                     5,029        67.83%          4,844        68.35%        -0.52%
104 - UFSA                         2,385        32.17%          2,243        31.65%         0.52%
                   TOTAL           7,414          100%          7,087          100%

110 - Cottonw ood Heights           4,321       85.90%           4,412       86.63%        -0.72%
110 - Holladay                        684       13.60%             658       12.92%         0.68%
110 - UFSA                             25        0.50%              23        0.45%         0.05%
                    TOTAL           5,030         100%           5,093         100%

112 - UFSA                          3,198       82.91%           3,266       84.24%        -1.33%
112 - Holladay                        654       16.96%             606       15.63%         1.33%
112 - Cottonw ood Heights               5        0.13%               5        0.13%         0.00%
                    TOTAL           3,857         100%           3,877         100%

116 - Cottonw ood Heights           2,332       83.85%           2,387       83.08%         0.77%
116 - UFSA                            282       10.14%             310       10.79%        -0.65%
116 - Holladay                        167        6.01%             176        6.13%        -0.12%
                    TOTAL           2,781        100%            2,873        100%
Service Demand Proportioning –
    Holladay City (4 Stations)
             UFA Member Fee – FY25/26
 The overall average increase to each of UFA five members is 9.81%.

                        COTTONWOOD
                                      HOLLADAY     HERRIMAN     RIVERTON        UFSA         TOTAL
                          HEIGHTS
Number of
stations w ith "first        3            4            3            3            23
due"
Proportional # of
                            1.70         1.04         1.84         2.11         19.31         26.00
stations
Percent of total
                           6.27%        4.11%        7.30%        8.38%        73.94%       100.00%
member fee
Member Fee for
                         $4,881,914   $3,198,058   $5,681,542   $6,517,853   $57,532,991   $77,812,357
FY25/26
Percent
I ncrease from             2.95%        4.12%        2.67%        2.98%        12.41%         9.81%
FY24/25
Cost I ncrease
                          $139,898    $126,442     $147,766     $188,898     $6,350,927    $6,953,930
from FY24/25
                                      UFA Member Fee – FY25/26
           STAFFING                             REGIONAL COSTS                                                   UFSA              COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS                    HOLLADAY                       HERRIMAN                       RIVERTON
                                                                     CAPITAL FUND
STATION   ENGINES/ TRUCKS    SERVICE DELIVERY         SUPPORT                           TOTAL COST   FY25/26 %           AMOUNT     FY25/26 %           AMOUNT     FY25/26 %           AMOUNT     FY25/26 %           AMOUNT     FY25/26 %           AMOUNT
                                                                       TRANSFER

  101       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
  102       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
  103       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389     4.98%              158,433                          0                               0       95.02%             3,022,956                          0
  104       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    32.17%            1,023,453                          0        67.83%             2,157,936                          0                              0
  106       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
  107       1,009,132           205,737              538,687           212,964          1,966,520    100.00%           1,966,520                          0                               0                              0                              0
  108       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
  109       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
  110       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389     0.50%              15,907     85.90%             2,732,813   13.60%              432,669                           0                              0
  111       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
  112       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    82.91%            2,637,690    0.13%               4,136      16.96%              539,564                           0                              0
  113       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
  115       1,570,471           411,475              538,687           212,964          2,733,597    100.00%           2,733,597                          0                               0                              0                              0
  116       1,570,471           411,475              538,687           212,964          2,733,597    10.14%              277,187    83.85%             2,292,121   6.01%               164,289                           0                              0
117A        2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
 117B       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
  118       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
  119       1,570,471           411,475              538,687           212,964          2,733,597    100.00%           2,733,597                          0                               0                              0                              0
  121       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389     0.00%                 0                             0                               0       5.90%               187,702    94.10%             2,993,687
  123       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389     0.00%                 0                             0                               0       83.05%             2,642,144   16.95%              539,245
  124       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389     0.00%                 0                             0                               0                              0       100.00%            3,181,389
  125       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
  126       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
  251       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
  252       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
  253       2,018,263           411,475              538,687           212,964          3,181,389    100.00%           3,181,389                          0                               0                              0                              0
TOTAL:     50,122,331         10,492,610           14,005,858         5,537,069        80,157,868

                                                                                                                 UFSA              COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS                    HOLLADAY                       HERRIMAN                       RIVERTON
             Total Number of Fire Stations with a First Due area serving Member                                   23                              3                              4                              3                              3
          Porportional number of stations member is financially responsible for            26                    19.31                          1.70                           1.04                           1.84                           2.11
                                                          Member Fee before credit     $80,157,868        $59,267,217                     $5,029,070                     $3,294,458                     $5,852,801                     $6,714,321
                                                        Percent of total Member Fee     100.00%               73.94%                            6.27%                          4.11%                          7.30%                          8.38%
                            Fund Balance Credit (Under expend from previous FY)        $2,345,511          $1,734,227                      $147,156                        $96,400                       $171,260                       $196,469
                                                     FY25/26 Member fee with credit    77,812,357         $57,532,991                     $4,881,914                     $3,198,058                     $5,681,542                     $6,517,853
                                                                FY24/25 Member Fee     70,858,427          51,182,064                      4,742,016                      3,071,616                      5,533,776                      6,328,955
                                                Increase (decrease) from current fee    6,953,930           6,350,927                       139,898                        126,442                        147,766                        188,898
                                                Percentage adjustment from FY24/25       9.81%                12.41%                            2.95%                          4.12%                          2.67%                          2.98%
                        UFA Member Fee – FY25/26
                           EXPENDITURES    REVENUE      MEMBER FEE       UFSA       C. HEIGHTS   HOLLADAY     HERRIMAN     RIVERTON
                                                           100%         73.94%        6.27%        4.11%        7.30%        8.38%
Operations                  $65,518,718   $15,277,186   $50,241,532   $37,147,642   $3,152,132   $2,064,908   $3,668,432   $4,208,418
Special Operations           $213,122          $0        $213,122      $157,578      $13,371       $8,759      $15,561      $17,852
Camp Williams                $778,690      $778,690         $0            $0            $0          $0           $0           $0
Fire Prevention             $1,979,464     $355,000     $1,624,464    $1,201,098     $101,918     $66,765     $118,612     $136,071
Fire Training               $1,539,249        $0        $1,539,249    $1,138,092     $96,572      $63,263     $112,390     $128,933
EMS                         $1,602,978     $60,350      $1,542,628    $1,140,590     $96,784      $63,401     $112,636     $129,216
Special Enforcement         $1,252,845      $48,351     $1,204,494     $890,580      $75,569      $49,504      $87,947     $100,893
USAR                         $906,709      $906,709         $0            $0           $0           $0           $0           $0
Wildland                    $4,277,578    $3,842,578     $435,000      $321,631      $27,292      $17,878      $31,762      $36,437
Emergency Mgmt              $3,088,314    $3,246,050    ($157,736)    ($116,627)     ($9,896)    ($6,483)     ($11,517)    ($13,213)
Administration              $3,878,743     $289,924     $3,588,819    $2,653,505     $225,161    $147,499     $262,041     $300,613
Finance                     $3,410,897    $2,351,528    $1,059,369     $783,277      $66,464      $43,540      $77,351      $88,737
Information Outreach        $1,103,768     $38,806      $1,064,962     $787,413      $66,815      $43,770      $77,759      $89,205
Human Resources             $1,329,609        $0        $1,329,609     $983,088      $83,419      $54,646      $97,083     $111,373
Logistics                   $7,374,450     $384,413     $6,990,037    $5,168,302     $438,552    $287,288     $510,384     $585,512
Technology                  $3,945,250        $0        $3,945,250    $2,917,044     $247,523    $162,148     $288,066     $330,469
Capital Fund Transfer       $5,537,069         $0        $5,537,069    $4,094,005    $347,393     $227,571     $404,294     $463,806
TOTAL COST                 $107,737,453   $27,579,585   $80,157,868   $59,267,218   $5,029,070   $3,294,458   $5,852,801   $6,714,321
Less Excess Fund Balance                                $2,345,511    $1,734,227     $147,156     $96,400     $171,260     $196,469
TOTAL MEMBER FEE                                        $77,812,357   $57,532,991   $4,881,914   $3,198,058   $5,681,542   $6,517,853
   UFA Capital Replacement Plan –
     FY25/26 Financed Purchases

CAPITAL REPLACEMENT - FINANCING    COST
Type 1 Engine (5)                  $5,275,000
Type 1/3 Engine (2)                 1,444,000
Tractor Draw n Aerial (TDA) (3)     6,552,000
Ambulance (5)                       1,950,000
Heav y Rescue (1)                   1,370,000
Mechanic Truck (3)                   444,000
UTV (4)                              136,000
Forklift (1)                           40,000
Breathing Air Compressor (2)         185,500
Stretcher (10)                       361,000
Stretcher Pow erload (5)             157,000
High Pressure Airbag Kit (4)           37,080
Thermal I magers (75)                422,250
Cardiac Monitors (47)               2,984,500
Staff Vehicles (13)                  663,000
Portable Radio (8)                     38,400
TOTAL                             $22,059,730
     UFA Capital Replacement Plan –
         FY25/26 Cash Purchases

CAPITAL REPLACEMENT - CASH                                     COST
Facilities Serv ice Body Truck (1)                         $     75,000
Wood Chipper (1)                                                 70,000
Serv er (2)                                                      45,000
Storage Dev ice                                                  30,000
Netw ork Dev ice (2)                                             31,200
Distributed Antenna Upgrade (3)                                  85,570
Netw ork Cabling - Logistics                                     11,841
Fitness Equipment                                                50,000
TOTAL FY25/26                                              $    398,611
Firew all Replacement Softw are (Rollov er from FY24/25)        147,839
GRAND TOTAL FY25/26                                        $    546,450
                                    UFA Capital Replacement Plan
GENERAL FUND                                       Inventory                           FY25/26                 FY28/29                 FY31/32                     FY34/35              FY37/38
                                                                                           9 YEAR FINANCING
APPARATUS                    # Front Line   # Reserve   Current Cost   Life Span   #                       #                       #                       #                        #
Type 1 Engine                    14            5        $1,055,000      9/12           5      $5,275,000       5      $5,670,625       4      $4,853,000       4       $5,169,500       5       $6,857,500
Type 1/3 Engine                   5            1         $722,000       9/12           2      $1,444,000       2      $1,552,300       2      $1,660,600                       $0       2       $1,877,200
Type 6 Engine                    13            5         $252,000       12/15                         $0       3        $812,700                      $0       3         $926,100                       $0
Tractor Drawn Aerial (TDA)        5            0        $2,184,000      9/12           3      $6,552,000       2      $4,695,600       1      $2,511,600       3       $8,026,200       3       $8,517,600
Straight Quint Aerial             2            3        $1,550,000      9/12                          $0                      $0       2      $3,565,000                       $0                       $0
Ambulance                        20            7         $390,000       9/12           5      $1,950,000       7      $2,934,750       5      $2,242,500       7       $3,344,250       5       $2,535,000
Heavy Rescue                      2            0        $1,370,000      18/21          1      $1,370,000       1      $1,472,750                      $0                       $0                       $0
Haz Mat                           2            0        $1,100,000      18/21                         $0       1      $1,182,500                      $0       1       $1,347,500                       $0
Air / Light                       1            0         $930,000       18/21                         $0                      $0                      $0                       $0                       $0
Tender                            4            0         $550,000       18/21                         $0                      $0       1        $632,500                       $0                       $0
WLD Duty Truck                    1            0         $117,000         9                           $0                      $0       1        $134,550                       $0                       $0
Mechanic Trucks                   4            1         $148,000         9            3        $444,000                      $0                      $0       4         $725,200                       $0
Vans                              4            0         $60,000          9                           $0       1         $64,500       1         $69,000       1          $73,500                       $0
Bomb Truck                        2            0         $150,000         9                           $0       1        $161,250       1        $172,500                       $0       1         $195,000
Field Communication Trucks        2            0         $140,000         9                           $0       2        $301,000                      $0                       $0       2         $364,000
Golf Carts                        2            0          $9,500         NA                           $0                      $0                      $0                       $0                       $0
ATV's                             8            0         $13,000         NA                           $0       3         $41,925       3         $44,850       3          $47,775       3          $50,700
UTV's                            17            0         $34,000         NA            4        $136,000       3        $109,650       3        $117,300       3         $124,950       3         $132,600
Fork lifts                        3            0         $40,000         NA            1         $40,000                      $0                      $0                       $0                       $0
Aerial Lifts                      2            0         $34,000         NA                           $0                      $0                      $0                       $0                       $0
Mobile Vehicle Lifts              1            0         $100,000       9/12                          $0                      $0       1        $115,000                       $0                       $0
Enclosed Trailers                19            0         $20,000         NA                           $0       2         $43,000       2         $46,000                       $0                       $0
Heavy Haul trailer                1            0         $125,000        NA                           $0                      $0                      $0                       $0                       $0
Haz Mat Trailer - Decon           1            0         $150,000       18/21                         $0                      $0                      $0                       $0                       $0
Flatbed Trailers                  8            0         $12,000         15                           $0       1         $12,900       1         $13,800                       $0                       $0
Dump Trailer                      1            0         $18,000         NA                           $0                      $0       1         $20,700                       $0                       $0
Fire Safety Trailer               1            0         $180,000        15                           $0                      $0                      $0                       $0                       $0
First Aid Events Trailer          1            0         $30,000         NA                           $0                      $0                      $0                       $0                       $0
Driver Training Simulator         1            0         $80,000         NA                           $0                      $0                      $0                       $0                       $0
Bomb Disposal Trailer             1            0         $14,000         NA                           $0                      $0                      $0                       $0                       $0
Haz Mat Box Truck                 1            0         $160,000       18/21                         $0       1        $172,000                      $0                       $0                       $0
Heavy Haul Tractor                1            0         $225,000       18/21                         $0                      $0                      $0                       $0                       $0
Decon Trailer Tractor             1            0         $150,000       18/21                         $0                      $0                      $0                       $0                       $0
Compact Track Loader              1            0         $125,000       18/21                         $0                      $0                      $0                       $0                       $0
                                       Total Apparatus Cost (9 Years)                      $17,211,000             $19,227,450             $16,198,900             $19,784,975              $20,529,600
                                     UFA Capital Replacement Plan
GENERAL FUND                                      Inventory                              FY25/26                FY28/29               FY31/32                FY34/35               FY37/38
                                                                                           9 YEAR FINANCING
EQUIPMENT                     # Front Line   # Reserve   Current Cost   Life Span   #          0          #           0          #          0           #         0           #          0

SCBA Breathing Apparatus         223            44        $7,038          15                         $0   250       $1,891,463                   $0                     $0                     $0
SCBA Cylinder, 60 minute         56             21        $1,375          15                         $0   100         $147,813                   $0                     $0                     $0
SCBA Cylinder, 45 minute         485            41        $1,120          15                         $0   500         $602,000                   $0                     $0                     $0
SCBA Face piece                  480           101         $345           15                         $0   550         $203,981                   $0                     $0                     $0
Breathing Air Compressors        11             0        $92,750          15        2          $185,500    2          $199,413   2         $213,325    1          $113,619    2          $241,150
Mechanical CPR Device            21             1        $20,000           9                         $0   22          $473,000                   $0                     $0    22         $572,000
AED                              10             0         $1,200         9/12                        $0   10           $12,900                   $0                     $0                     $0
Extrication Set, eTools           7             1        $38,065           9                         $0    3          $122,760   3         $131,324    2           $93,259                     $0
Mobile Radios DB                 36             10        $6,100          NA                         $0                     $0   10         $70,150    10          $74,725    10          $79,300
Mobile Radios SB                 145            40        $4,800          NA                         $0                     $0   10         $55,200    10          $58,800    10          $62,400
Stretchers                       20             10       $36,100           9        10         $361,000   10          $388,075   8         $332,120    10         $442,225    10         $469,300
Stair Chair                      20             5         $5,100           9                         $0   28          $153,510                   $0                     $0    28         $185,640
Stretcher Powerload              20             0        $31,400         9/12       5          $157,000    5          $168,775   5         $180,550    5          $192,325    5          $204,100
Filtered Water/Ice Machines      29             1         $4,500           9                         $0   29          $140,288                   $0                     $0    29         $169,650
PPE Washer                        2             0         $7,950           9                         $0                     $0   1           $9,143                     $0                     $0
HazMat ID, Spectrometry           2             0        $75,000         9/12                        $0   1            $80,625                   $0                     $0                     $0
Confined space comms kit          1             0        $22,000          15                         $0                     $0                   $0                     $0                     $0
Airbag kit, high pressure         8             0         $9,270          15        4           $37,080                     $0   4          $42,642                     $0    4           $48,204
Airbag controllers/values        11             0         $7,150          15                         $0                     $0                   $0                     $0    2           $18,590
Hydra Fusion Kit                  4             0         $6,000          15                         $0                     $0                   $0    4           $29,400                     $0
Low Pressure Airbag Kit           2             0         $7,600          15                         $0                     $0                   $0                     $0    4           $39,520
Mulit-force Airbag Kit            4             0         $9,000          15                         $0                     $0                   $0                     $0    4           $46,800
Bomb Suits                        2             0        $37,000           9                         $0                     $0   2          $85,100                     $0                     $0
Bomb Robot                        1             0        $351,000         15                         $0                     $0                   $0                     $0                     $0
                                       Total Equipment Cost (9 Years)                        $740,580             $4,584,601            $1,119,554            $1,004,353             $2,136,654
                                                                                           6 YEAR FINANCING
Thermal Imagers                  64             11        $5,630           6        75         $422,250                     $0   75         $485,588                     $0   75          $548,925
Cardiac Monitors                 43             4        $63,500           6        47       $2,984,500                     $0   47       $3,432,175                     $0   47        $3,879,850
Staff Vehicles                   55             6        $51,000           6        13         $663,000   13          $712,725   13         $762,450    13         $812,175   13          $861,900
Portable Radios DB Admin         43             0         $5,450           6                         $0   43          $251,926                    $0    43         $287,079                     $0
Portable Radios DB FF            41             0         $6,100           6                         $0   41          $268,858                    $0    41         $306,373                     $0
Portable Radio SB                301            0         $4,800           6        8           $38,400   301       $1,553,160                    $0   301       $1,769,880                     $0
GPH & X Portable BK              71             0         $2,350           6                         $0   71          $179,364                    $0    71         $204,391                     $0
GMH Mobile DMH BK                24             0         $2,300           6                         $0   24           $59,340                    $0    24          $67,620                     $0
                                       Total Equipment Cost (6 Years)                      $4,108,150             $3,025,373            $4,680,213            $3,447,518             $5,290,675
UPD FY2025-26
TENTATIVE
BUDGET

May 15, 2025
                    As required by Utah State Code 11-13-508 UPD must submit to the Board
                    of Directors a Tentative Budget for the upcoming fiscal year no later
                    than the first regularly scheduled meeting in May.


                    With that, staff is here to present the proposed tentative budget for the
                    2025-26 fiscal year.




UNIFIED POLICE DEPARTMENT

Resolution No. 25-05-02 of 2025

Adoption of the FY2026 Tentative Budget
                   Board of Directors


Carolyn Keigley     Linda McCalmon       David Brems           Robert Dahle       Alan Peterson
  Brighton            Copperton          Emigration             Holladay            Kearns




         Steve Prokopis      Dustin Gettel       Jeff Silvestrini       Phillip Cardenaz
           Magna              Midvale              Millcreek             White City
THE ORGANIZATION – CHANGES FROM LAST YEAR

    We have added four new sworn            • We have added three sworn positions to the Kearns precinct – two
                                                   of which will be for by the City of Kearns.
positions – one in Professional Services-   • We added a new sworn position in Professional Services – Training.
      Training and three in Kearns                 This is a position that was converted from civilian to sworn.




                                            • One officer in the Investigations DV/Fraud/Forgery Unit
We have added three sworn positions in      • One officer in the Brighton Precinct
    the following division/precinct         • One Training Sergeant for DA Office – Funded by the DA Office


                                            • One civilian retired – by moving operations into new building, that
                                                    position has been converted to the sworn officer position
We increased Civilian positions by one              referred above.
                                            • Includes the new Licensed Clinical Social Worker position shared
 We increased a Part-time position by               between Millcreek and Holladay at 67% / 33%, respectively.
                 one                        • Kearns added one new FT Crime Analyst position to be paid for
                                                    by the City of Kearns
                                            • Magna added a part-time janitor last July
THE ORGANIZATION
                                            2025-2026 Increase /
        Positions       Restructured UPD
                                              UPD      (Decrease)
Sworn                                  266         273           7
Civilian                                68          69           1
Part-Time                                 7          8           1
Total                                   341        350           9
                Crossing Guards and Temp Positions
Crossing Guards                       151.5        160        8.50
UFA SWAT Medic Temp                       8          8           -
                                                                                              UNIFIED POLICE DEPARTMENT
                                                                                                                       Fiscal Year 2025-2026
                                                                                                                                 ADMINISTRATION



                                                                                                                                                                                 Media Services Unit
                                                                                   Executive Secretary                        CHIEF OF POLICE                                        1 PIO Sgt.
                                                                                                                                                                                 1 Web Administrator



                                                                                                                                     Watch Command
                                                                                                                                      2 Lieutenants


                                                                MUNICIPAL POLICE SERVICES

                  PROFESSIONAL. STANDARDS                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SLVLESA
                                                                     TECH SERVICES                            INVESTIGATIONS                                                          CITIES BASIC BUILD
                      HR / Legal / Fiscal
                                                                                                                                                                MILLCREEK                  HOLLADAY                 MIDVALE                  MAGNA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KEARNS
                                                                                                                                                                EMIGRATION                 BRIGHTON                WHITE CITY              COPPERTON

                                                                                                                                                               .95 Deputy Chief          .80 Deputy Chief        .75 Deputy Chief        .95 Deputy Chief          1 Deputy Chief


            1 Deputy Chief         1 Attorney       1 CFO             1 Deputy Chief                                                                            .95 Lieutenant            .80 Lieutenant          .75 Lieutenant          .95 Lieutenant            1 Lieutenant
                                                                                                                   1 Deputy Chief
                                                                                                                                                              1.90 Off. Coordinator      .80 Off. Coordinator                                                      1 Off. Coordinator
                                                                                                 1 Lieutenant                       1 Lieutenant                                                                .75 Office Supervisor    .95 Off. Coordinator
             1 Lieutenant                                              1 Lieutenant                                                                                                                                                                                   1 P/T Janitor
                                    Legal Unit    Fiscal Unit                                    1 Crime Analyst             1 Officer – Equip Coordinator                                                       .75 Records Tech
                                    1 Paralegal                                                                                                                                        Added .33 LCSW                                   NEW 1 Janitor P/T
                                                  2 Managers                                                                                                  Added .67 LCSW                                       .75 Janitor P/T
           1 HR Generalist         Purch/Grants     3 Techs                                   1 Office Supervisor          CONVERTED TO SWORN
                                                                    1 Office Coordinator                                                                                                      Patrol                                                                  Patrol
                                                                                                2 Office Specialists         1 Office Coordinator
                                                                                                                                                                                        1.67 Sgts (shared)              Patrol                                        5 Sgts
                                                                       Records Unit                                                                                                         15 Officers                 3 Sgts                                      20 Officers         Was 17
         1 Office Coordinator                                                                    Special Victims                                                   Patrol                                             22 Officers
                                                                        1 Manager
                                                                                                      1 Sgt.                           K9 Unit               3.33 Sgts (shared)         Investigations                                        Patrol
                                                                       1 Supervisors                                                                                                                               Investigations
                                                                    1 GRAMA Coordinator
                                                                                                      8 Det.                            1 Sgt.
                                                                                                                                                                25 Officers                  .25 Sgt.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .75 Sgt. (Shared)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.75 Sgts
        Training / Firearms Unit                                                                1 Missing Persons                    4 Handlers                                             1 PC Det.                                      20 Officers              Investigations
                                                                         12 Techs                                                                                                                                   1 Det. / COP
                2 Sgts.                                                                                                                                                                    1 COP Det.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3 SRO Det.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1 Sgt
Was 3          4 Officers                                           Property & Evidence       Violent Crimes Unit              S.W.A.T Team                   Investigations               3 SRO Det.           .75 Victim Advocate                                       2 Det.
                                                                          1 Manager                  1 Sgt.                         1 Sgt.                         .75 Sgt.            .8 Victim Advocate                                 Investigations                 4 SRO
                                                                    1 Asset Supply Coord.            7 Det.                       1 Officers                     1 MHU Det                                                                    1 Sgt                1 Victim Advocate
        Secondary Employment
            1 Coordinator                                                  5 Techs                 1 CAR Det.              30 Operators (Secondary)              1 COP Det.
                                                                                                                                                                                       HOLLADAY ADD ONS                                       2 Det.               1 Crime Analyst New Position
                                                                         3 P/T Techs                                       8 Negotiators(Secondary)              4 SRO Det.                                      MIDVALE ADD ONS
                                                                                                                               8 Medics (UFA)                                                                                                 2 SRO
                                                                                                   Forensics                                                 .95 Victim Advocate                                                         .95 Victim Advocate
            Internal Affairs                                                                                                                                                              Detectives
                                                                          Fleet Unit               1 Manager                                                                                                         DEU EAST
                 2 Sgt.                                                                                                           Drone Unit                                              1 MHU Det.
                                                                         1 Manager               8 Technicians                                                                                                        .25 Sgt.                                      Kearns ADD ONS
                                                                        1 Coordinator              1 P/T Tech                        1 Sgt.                   MILLCREEK ADD ONS                                        1 Det.               Magna ADD ONS
                                                                                                                             13 Pilots (Secondary)                                           Traffic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Shelter                                              DEU
                                                                        Radio Shop               DV / Fraud Unit                                                                               2                                                                          2 Det.
                                                                                                                                                                  Detectives                                           1 Sgt.                     DEU
                                                                        1 Supervisor               1 Sergeant
    UPD Total FTE:                                                         2 Tech              6 Det. Now 7 Det            Crossing Guard Coord.
                                                                                                                                                                    1 Sgt.
                                                                                                                                                                    4 Det.
                                                                                                                                                                                           DEU EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                            .5 Det.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6 Officers                  2 Det.                    COP
                                                                         1 P/T Tech             1 Fact Sheet Det.                 1 Civilian                                                                           Traffic                                             1 Sgt.
  Sworn: 266 Now 273                                                                           DA Training Sgt
                                                                                                                                                                  DEU EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                       Code Enforcement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2 Det.
                                                                                                                                                                   .5 Sgt.
   Civilian: 68 Now 69                                                   New Position                    1                                                          2 Det.                   1 Det              Code Enforcement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1 Det
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2 Det.

   Part Time: 7 Now 8                                                                        Task Force Det. / MGU                                                  Traffic                    Bailiff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COPPERTON
                                                                                                                                                                      3                        1 Det
  Total: 341 Now 350                                                                                  1                                                                                                              WHITE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .25 Chief             .05 Deputy Chief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .25 Lieutenant            .05 Lieutenant
                                                                                                                                                                                          BRIGHTON                                               .25 Sgt.
                                                                                                                                                             EMIGRATION CNYN                                        .25 Office Sup
                                                                                                                                                                                             .20 Chief                                           1 Officer
                                                                                                                                                                   .05 Chief                                      .25 Records Tech
  UPD CG’s and Temp:                                                                                                                                            .05 Lieutenant
                                                                                                                                                                                          .20 Lieutenant
                                                                                                                                                                                         .20 Office Coord
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.25 Sgts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .25 DEU Sgt.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .05 Officer Coordinator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .05 Victim Advocate
                                                                                                                                                               .10 Office Coord
  Crossing Guards:160                                                                                                                                        .05 Victim Advocate
                                                                                                                                                                                       .20 Victim Advocate
                                                                                                                                                                                           .75 Sergeant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7 Officers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .5 DEU Det
                                                                                                                                                                 .25 Sergeant
UFA SWAP Medics Temp: 8                                                                                                                                            2 Officers                6 Officers          .25 Victim Advocate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .25 P/T Janitor
                                                                                                                                                                                       1 Added Officer
           EMPLOYEES BY DEPARTMENT / PRECINCT

►   Shared Services – 116 plus 8 Medic Temps
                                               ► Holladay – 30.95 plus 20 CG’s
      ► Sworn positions – 54 57

      ► Civilian positions – 55 54                 ►   Sworn positions – 29.02
      ► Part-time – 5                              ►   Civilian positions – 1.6 1.93
      ►UFA SWAP Medic Temps – 8
                                                   ► Crossing Guards – 20
►Fleet – 2

      ► Sworn positions – 1

      ► Civilian positions – 1                 ►   Midvale – 45.50 plus 23 CG’s
                                                   ►   Sworn positions – 42.50
► Millcreek – 51.01 plus 30 CG’s

      ► Sworn positions – 47.49
                                                   ►   Civilian positions – 2.25
      ► Civilian positions – 2.85 3.52             ►   Part-time positions - .75
      ►Crossing Guards – 30
                                                   ► Crossing Guards – 23
 EMPLOYEES BY METRO TOWNSHIP - SLVLESA

►Kearns– 43 plus 36 CG’s            ►   Magna – 38.55 plus 44 CG’s
                                          ►   Sworn positions – 35.65
    ► Sworn positions – 36 39
                                          ►   Civilian positions – 1.9
    ► Civilian positions – 2    3         ►   Part-time – 1 – Hired last July
    ► Part-time – 1                       ►   Crossing Guards – 44
    ►Crossing Guards – 36
                                    ►   Emigration – 2.5
                                          ►   Sworn positions – 2.35
►Brighton – 8.55
                                          ►   Civilian positions – .15
    ► Sworn positions – 7.15 8.15

    ► Civilian positions – .4       ►   White City – 10.5 plus 7 CG’s
                                          ►   Sworn positions – 9.5
►Copperton – 1.45                         ►   Civilian positions – .75

    ► Sworn positions – 1.35
                                          ►   Part-time positions - .25
                                          ►   Crossing Guards – 7
    ► Civilian positions – .1
          THE BUDGET – WHAT REMAINED THE SAME

                  2                                        4                               6                                          8
                                                                                                                                  First round
              VECC budget                             URS rate                         Includes a
                                                                                                                                  of cuts in the
              increase is                             remained flat                    2.5% Market
                                                                                                                                  amount of
              $109,150 -                              for sworn and                    Adjustment
                                                                                                                                  $563,346 are

     1                                  3                                    5                                  7
              $205K less                              decreased 1%                     and a 2.5%
                                                                                                                                  reflected in
              than                                    for civilian –                   Cost-of-
                                                                                                                                  this budget
              originally                              savings of $59K                  Living
              anticipated.                                                             increase

Revenues                                                                Wages &
remain flat                  Health insurance                           Benefits are                 Based on 70/20/10 shared
                             increase is 8.3% -                         based on                     service formula – 70%
                             • Shared with employees                    actual                       cases, 20% population, 10%
                               at 80/20 split                           amount not                   property valuation. The
                                                                        averages                     formula has been updated
                             • UPD share of increase is                                              with the most recent data.
                               approximately $370.2K
WHAT HAS CHANGED - 2ND ROUND OF CUTS IN THE BUDGET

►Shared Services – General Fund – Cut $95,150              ►Precincts – Cut $554,380

    ► Cut $200 in Internal Affairs Unit                        ►Cut $385,180 in Kearns

    ►Cut $28,950 in Professional Services –Training Unit       ►Cut $78,300 in Magna

    ►Cut $17,000 in the Firearms/Range Unit                    ►Cut $59,500 in Millcreek

    ►Cut $45,000 in Risk Management Insurance –                ►Cut $9,900 in Holladay
    Contracting with different company
                                                               ►Cut $21,500 in Midvale
    ► Cut $4,000 in the Finance/HR/Legal division




                              Overall Cuts - $649,530
BUDGET CUT DETAIL – SHARED SERVICES - $95,150
              2024 DATA
                                        Cases Assigned                    Population*                      Tax Value 2024              Total
                  Member        Cases         %          70%    Population        %      20%        Tax Value          %      10%       %
              Holladay            3,737       9.08%       6.35%    30,298       14.82%    2.96%     6,058,960,402    23.27%    2.33%    11.65%
FY2025-2026   Midvale
              Millcreek
                                 11,208
                                 11,237
                                             27.22%
                                             27.29%
                                                         19.06%
                                                         19.11%
                                                                   35,561
                                                                   62,205
                                                                                17.40%
                                                                                30.43%
                                                                                          3.48%
                                                                                          6.09%
                                                                                                    4,498,298,571
                                                                                                    9,115,826,043
                                                                                                                     17.28%
                                                                                                                     35.02%
                                                                                                                               1.73%
                                                                                                                               3.50%
                                                                                                                                        24.26%
                                                                                                                                        28.69%
SHARED        SLVLESA            14,987      36.40%      25.48%    76,335       37.35%    7.47%     6,360,413,315    24.43%    2.44%    35.40%

SERVICE         Total            41,168     100.00%      70.00%   204,399      100.00%   20.00%    26,033,498,331   100.00%   10.00%   100.00%

FORMULA                                 Cases Assigned                    Population*                      Tax Value 2024              Total
                  SLVLESA       Cases         %        25.48%     Population     %       7.47%     Tax Value          %       2.44%     %
              Kearns               6,908      46.10%     11.75%      37,767     49.48%     3.70%    2,302,021,818    36.19%    0.88%     16.33%
              Magna                6,463      43.12%     10.99%      30,087     39.41%     2.94%    2,487,774,222    39.11%    0.96%     14.89%
              White City             509       3.39%      0.86%       5,676      7.44%     0.56%      454,010,027     7.14%    0.17%      1.59%
              Copperton              137       0.91%      0.23%         852      1.12%     0.08%       62,144,740     0.98%    0.02%      0.34%
              Emigration Cyn         177       1.18%      0.30%       1,506      1.97%     0.15%      401,662,785     6.32%    0.15%      0.60%
              Brighton               793       5.29%      1.35%         447      0.59%     0.04%      652,799,723    10.26%    0.25%      1.64%
                Total             14,987    100.00%      25.48%      76,335    100.00%     7.47%    6,360,413,315   100.00%    2.44%    35.40%


FY2024-2025   2023 DATA
                                        Cases Assigned                    Population*                      Tax Value 2023              Total
SHARED            Member        Cases         %          70%    Population        %      20%        Tax Value          %      10%       %

SERVICE       Holladay
              Midvale
                                  3,744
                                 11,613
                                              8.91%
                                             27.65%
                                                          6.24%
                                                         19.36%
                                                                   30,816
                                                                   35,637
                                                                                15.05%
                                                                                17.40%
                                                                                          3.01%
                                                                                          3.48%
                                                                                                    5,492,069,265
                                                                                                    3,462,942,880
                                                                                                                     23.89%
                                                                                                                     15.06%
                                                                                                                               2.39%
                                                                                                                               1.51%
                                                                                                                                        11.64%
                                                                                                                                        24.34%
FORMULA       Millcreek          11,890      28.31%      19.82%    63,034       30.78%    6.16%     8,262,775,007    35.94%    3.59%    29.57%
              SLVLESA            14,750      35.12%      24.59%    75,280       36.76%    7.35%     5,771,936,634    25.11%    2.51%    34.45%
                Total            41,997     100.00%      70.00%   204,767      100.00%   20.00%    22,989,723,786   100.00%   10.00%   100.00%

                                        Cases Assigned                    Population*                      Tax Value 2023              Total
                  SLVLESA       Cases         %        24.59%     Population     %       7.35%     Tax Value          %       2.51%     %
              Kearns               6,741      45.70%     11.24%      37,249     49.48%     3.64%    2,039,785,514    35.34%    0.89%     15.76%
              Magna                6,106      41.40%     10.18%      29,668     39.41%     2.90%    2,309,907,055    40.02%    1.00%     14.08%
              White City             554       3.76%      0.92%       5,598      7.44%     0.55%      396,542,413     6.87%    0.17%      1.64%
              Copperton              130       0.88%      0.22%         840      1.12%     0.08%       56,912,995     0.99%    0.02%      0.32%
              Emigration Cyn         210       1.42%      0.35%       1,484      1.97%     0.14%      370,624,235     6.42%    0.16%      0.66%
CHANGES       Brighton             1,009       6.84%      1.68%         441      0.59%     0.04%      598,164,422    10.36%    0.26%      1.99%
BY MEMBER       Total             14,750    100.00%      24.59%      75,280    100.00%     7.35%    5,771,936,634   100.00%    2.51%    34.45%

IN CASES,     CHANGES FROM 2023 TO 2024
POPULATION,                       Cases Assigned Change                Population Change                 Tax Value Change              Total
AND               Member        Cases          %         70%    Population        %      20%        Tax Value         %       10%       %

TAX VALUE     Holladay
              Midvale
                                     (7)
                                   (405)
                                               0.16%
                                              -0.43%
                                                          0.11%
                                                         -0.30%
                                                                     (518)
                                                                       (76)
                                                                                -0.23%
                                                                                -0.01%
                                                                                         -0.05%
                                                                                          0.00%
                                                                                                      566,891,137
                                                                                                    1,035,355,691
                                                                                                                     -0.62%
                                                                                                                      2.22%
                                                                                                                              -0.06%
                                                                                                                               0.22%
                                                                                                                                          0.01%
                                                                                                                                         -0.08%
              Millcreek            (653)      -1.02%     -0.71%      (829)      -0.35%   -0.07%       853,051,036    -0.93%   -0.09%     -0.87%
              SLVLESA               237        1.28%      0.90%     1,055        0.58%    0.12%       588,476,681    -0.67%   -0.07%      0.95%
OVERALL BUDGET

  Total Budget - $66.49M
                                           - Cities Share - $39.08M – 58.77%
  $1,732,494 decrease from preliminary     - SLVLESA Share - $27.41M – 41.23%
  budget



                                         $1.447M from Precincts
                                         $1.387M from Shared Services
                                         • $552.4K or 39.83% in Wages
                                         • $37.3K or 2.69% in Overtime
   Total Increase $2.834M                • $278.9K or 20.11% in Benefits
                                         • $9.39K or .68% in Travel & Training
                                         • $49.9K or 3.6% Fuel & Vehicle Maintenance
                                         • $458.7K or 33.08% in Operations
 OVERALL BUDGET RATES
►We have updated the cases to reflect a 3-year average and there have been some
additional cuts made to the budget. Therefore, the rates per member have changed.
►Overall Increase   4.36% - down 1.30% from PBIM
►Each member’s individual rate is as follows
            Millcreek – 2.95%
            Holladay – 6.44%
            Midvale – 3.81%

►SLVLESA Overall is 4.89%

►Each member’s individual rate is as follows
            Kearns – 5.14%
            Magna – 4.95%
            White City – 1.11%
            Copperton – 12.93%
            Emigration – 2.29%
            Brighton – 7.04%
PRELIMINARY BUDGET – PRESENTED FEBRUARY 20, 2025
   PRIOR TO SHARED SERVICE FORMULA UPDATE
    PBIM – PRESENTED MARCH 20, 2025
AFTER SHARED SERVICE FORMULA UPDATED
            TENTATIVE BUDGET
OVERALL DECREASE FROM PRELIMINARY - $1,732,494
         TENTATIVE BUDGET - SLVLESA
SLVLESA DECREASE FROM PRELIMINARY - $679,828
STILL ONGOING FOR FINAL BUDGET

•   Waiting to finalize the contract for the “new” building
•   Will be updating new hires and changes in personnel transfers throughout the departments


•   The General Fund Balance
     •   Preliminary start up building costs estimate $1.4M - $315K to come from balance of this year’s
         budget (NOT fund balance). Waiting for bids to get better estimates.


     •   Will be calculating estimated net incomes for each precinct and the GF for FY25 year-end

     •   Current estimated fund balance availability $899K after 8.5% minimum
