                               NOTICE OF A MEETING OF THE
                             CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                THURSDAY, AUGUST 28, 2025

5:00 p.m.       Council Dinner – Council members will be eating dinner. No city business will be
                discussed.

5:30 p.m.       Briefing Session - The Council will review and discuss the agenda items; NO decisions
                will be made

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a Council meeting
on Thursday, August 28, 2025, at 6:00 pm. Members of the Council may participate by electronic
means if needed. The Council Chambers shall serve as the anchor location.
* Agenda items may be moved in order, sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or linked in this agenda.
Interested parties are encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

Citizens desiring to make public comments or to make comments during any public hearing may provide
such comments as follows:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@cityofholladay.com


                                               AGENDA

I.      Welcome – Mayor Dahle

II.     Pledge of Allegiance

III.    Public Comments
        Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda may provide their
        comment via email to the Council before 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting to
        scarlson@holladayut.gov with the subject line: Public Comment. Comments are subject to the
        Public Comment Policy set forth below

IV.     Consideration of the Appeal of Christian and Amanda Hansen for the Subdivision and PUD
        Approval at 4867 S Floribunda Dr

V.      Public Hearing on Proposed Text Amendment to Title 13.86.020 to add 4659 S Highland Dr to
        Holladay’s Historic Designation List

VI.     Consideration of Ordinance 2025-14 Amending Title 13.86.020 to add 4659 S Highland Dr to
        Holladay’s Historic Designation List

VII.    Consideration of Ordinance 2025-15 Repealing Ordinance 2025-13 and Re-Adopting a New
        Title 13.84 of the City Code Relating to Outdoor Lighting Standards (proposed new and
        expanded outdoor lighting section for the city)
VIII.     Consideration of Resolution 2025-21 Granting Advice and Consent of the City Council for the
          Appointment of Members to the Planning Commission

IX.       Consideration of Resolution 2025-22 Granting Advice and Consent of the City Council for the
          Re-Appointment of Members to the Historical Commission

X.        City Manager Report - Gina Chamness

XI.       Council Reports & District Issues

XII.      Recess City Council in a Work Meeting:
          a. Discussion of a Proposed Territorial Expansion of the Holladay Justice Court to Include
             Brighton - Gina
          b. Funding Options for City Hall Upgrade & Spring Lane
             Overview – Gina
             Building Authority & Scenarios – Laura Lewis
             Funding models - Fred Philpot
          e. Calendar
          Council Meetings – Sept. 11 & 18, Oct. 2, 23, Nov. 6 & 20, Dec. 4 & 11
              ULCT Conf - Oct 1-2

XIII.      Closed Session for the Purpose(s) Described in U.C.A. 52-4-204 and 205 (if needed)

XIV.       Adjourn


 Public Comment Policy & Procedure: During each regular Council Meeting there will be a Public Comment
 Time. The purpose of the Public Comment Time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council. Citizens requesting to
 address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and present it to the City Recorder. In general,
 the Chairman will allow an individual three minutes to address the Council. A spokesman, recognized as
 representing a group in attendance, may be allowed up to five minutes. Comments which cannot be made within
 these time limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting so
 they can be copied and distributed to the Council. At the conclusion of the Citizen Comment time, the Chairman
 may direct staff to assist the citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative
 department(s); or take no action. This policy also applies to all Public Hearings.



 CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
 I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above agenda notice was
 posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,
 and was emailed to the Salt Lake Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

 DATE POSTED: Monday, August 25, 2025 at 11:00am
 Stephanie N. Carlson MMC
 City Recorder City of Holladay

         Reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities or those needing language interpretation
      services can be provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at
             least three days in advance. TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
                                         City of Holladay
                                     HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                               COUNCIL STAFF REPORT


MEETING DATE: August 28th 2025
SUBJECT: Hansen Appeal – Appeal of a Planning Commission Decision; “Hinkley Estates PUD”
SUBMITTED BY: Jonathan Teerlink, CED Director


ACTION:
H.C.C. §13.78.130, §13.08.040 and 13.101 establish the City Council as the appeal authority for an appeal of
a Planning Commission’s decision of a Planned Unit Development (i.e. conditionally approved subdivision)

SUMMARY:
Property owner Jennie F Hinckley, represented by applicant, Duangkamon “D” Rennie filed for subdivision
review of 1.65 acres (71,642 sq ft) of land within the R-1-10 zone. Under this zone, the project area would
allow for a total of seven dwelling units. According to entitlement processes set for by 13.10a, the Planning
Commission reviewed the application and approved a PUD subdivision for 4 lots which included tree/open
space conservation areas.

BACKGROUND:
The Hinckley family has owned and lived on the property for over 100 years. The project area consists of
two parcels, each having one home and two “associated parcels”, related to one of the current lots (where
Jennie F Hinckley currently resides). In order to convert these “associated parcels” to legal lots of record,
the subdivision process was initiated.

The applicant presented the project as an estate situation to keep the property with the family and to
request entitlements for two future homes (on the reconfigured “associated parcels”). The path to
accommodate the project was elected to be via the Planned Unit Development (PUD) process. This process
enabled the applicant to propose a configuration that to adapt to preserving existing homes, the existing
conditions and the preservation of mature trees and other desirable features.

PROCEEDURES & MOTIONS:
   • 1st Planning Commission Meeting held May 6th, notice for public hearing mailed April 25th
          o Public hearing held
          o Planning Commission continued discussion due to questions regarding access control
   • 2 Planning Commission Meeting held July 15th, notice mailed July 3rd (additional notice provided)
       nd

          o Review of revised drawings which addressed access concerns
                                          City of Holladay
                                      HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
            o   Additional public hearing held.
                     Matters of fact are relevant to the appeal during this point of the process
            o   Planning Commission’s motion unanimously approve the Concept plan, Conditions of a PUD
                and the Preliminary Plat – see motion approval letter.

SUMMARY OF APPLICABLE PUD PROVISIONS:
The record consisting of applicant proposals, staff reports, public comments and other discussion captured
by the meeting minutes are provided in the council packet. An additional summary of PUDs and the City of
Holladay’s PUD provisions is provided by staff.

PUD THEORY:
Communities that are both “built-out” and experiencing rejuvenation of their housing stock, due to growth
pressures or other causalities, are required to deal with a myriad of infill development hurdles. Where
standard subdivision provisions lack the flexibility to accommodate an entitled right under a land use zone,
the Planned Unit Development (PUD) process provides adaptability in deciding how to integrate uses,
depending on locations and topography. Recent planning trends have reinforced the potential for PUDs to
live up their original ideals as an improvement on the shortcomings of the Euclidean zoning, and, If
designed thoughtfully, PUDs can provide the planning commission the tools to approve infill development
in thoughtful and adaptable ways.

Accordingly, PUDs are a common land use tool. Specific definitions of a PUD will vary by jurisdiction, but the
term generally refers to a flexible approach to the planning of a variety of housing types and land uses on a
relatively large portion of land. For Holladay, the scope of a PUD is dramatically refined to limit
development flexibility in the areas of; land use, building height, and density. In other words, a single-family
subdivision consisting of 5 lots cannot be approved for higher density, higher building heights or additional
land uses not found under the allowed uses for the zone. The only flexibility afforded to an application in
Holladay would be to allowed larger or smaller lot sizes for the 5 homes, adjust their associated setbacks to
accommodate various concerns and to preserve the left-over areas as open space.

PUDs IN APPLICATION
Below are some provisions that highlight the Planning Commission’s review. Discussion on these items are
found in the minutes of the two meetings held on May 6th and July 15th;

    •    “Provision of a planned unit development by this chapter in no way guarantees a property owner
         the right to exercise the provisions of the planned unit development. Planned unit developments
         may be approved by the planning commission as a conditional use only if, in its judgment, the
         proposed planned unit development fully meets the intent and purpose, and requirements of the
         land use ordinance and the general plan.” §13.78.010
                                     City of Holladay
                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
•   “…Applicants must justify to the planning commission why the project would be better for the
    community than a project developed as the underlying zoning would normally allow. Development
    under the planned unit development process is a privilege that must be earned by the developer,
    not a right that must be granted by the planning commission.” §13.78.020

•   “Preservation and maintenance of required open spaces within the development shall be the
    responsibility of the planned unit development ownership and shall be maintained in perpetuity as
    open space”. §13.78.090

•   Landscaping, fencing and screening related to the uses within the site and as a means of
    integrating the proposed development into its surroundings shall be planned and presented to the
    planning commission for approval, together with other required plans for the development
    §13.78.100

•   “Minimum Control Intended: It is not the intent of this chapter that control of the design of a
    planned unit development by the planning commission be so rigidly exercised that individual
    initiative be stifled and substantial additional expense incurred; rather, it is the intent of this
    section that the control exercised be the minimum necessary to achieve the purpose of this
    chapter.” §13.78.130.B
                                             City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning



                        PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
                                                   July 15, 2025

ITEMS # 2, 3, and 4
Request: Residential Subdivision as a Planned Unit Development
*To be reviewed as three separate actions- separate hearings and motions for each
Project: “Hinckley Estates”
Address: 4888 S. Floribunda Dr.
Applicant: D. Rennie, representing property owner JFH Trust
File No.: 25-1-07
Notice: Mailed Notice on April 25th, 2025; 2nd notice mailed on July 2, 2025
Staff: Carrie Marsh

GOVERNING ORDINANCES:
13.06           DEVELOPMENT REVIEW & APPROVAL PROCEDURES - ADMINISTRATIVE
13.08           ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT REVIEW STANDARDS
13.10A          SUBDIVSIONS
13.10A.070      PRELIMINARY AND FINAL SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCESS
13.10A.080      PRELIMINARY AND FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION CONTENTS
13.78           PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT

REQUIRED PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION: Administrative
Public hearing to be held. As this application is for a residential subdivision and a Planned Unit
Development, the PC shall make three separate motions, one for each item, to either, approve or to
continue discussion for this application. All motions require findings which support the decision. As
directed by ordinance, applications shall be approved if the Land Use Authority finds Substantial
Evidence of compliance with applicable requirements. Holladay Ord. 13.06.050.B2 and 13.08

    1. A conceptual subdivision site plan will be reviewed for compliance with the R-1-10 zone and
       establish the allowed density, or maximum number of dwelling units. Decisions must be made
       during public meeting. (See page 5 for TRC Review and motion)

    2. Creation of a subdivision plat requires review and approval of the preliminary plat by the Land
       Use Authority (Planning Commission), as detailed in 13.10A.070.D. Decisions must be made
       during public meeting. (See page 6 for TRC Review and motion)

    3. A Planned Unit Development (PUD) is a conditional use-controlled subdivision plat and requires
       a site plan review and approval by the Land Use Authority (Planning Commission). Decisions and
       approval must be made during public meeting. (See page 12 for TRC Review and motion)




“Hinckley Estates” Preliminary Subdivision                                                   Page 1 of 13
                                             City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning



SUMMARY
Applicant, D. Rennie, representing property owner JFH Trust, has been working with the TRC on an
application for a subdivision as a Planned Unit Development. All property that is within the proposed
subdivision is owned by the same family. The family is seeking to preserve significant natural features on
the property while utilizing unclaimed density with the total area of land to enable additional family
members to build new homes that fit their individual needs on the property.

The process for a PUD involves three steps. This staff report will provide information that is relevant to
the entire project. A separate TRC review and motion will be included on individual pages for each of the
three steps detailed below. Each step will have a separate public hearing.

        STEP 1: Concept subdivision review to establish allowed number of units based on meeting
        minimum zone requirements

        STEP 2: Conditional Use Permit (CUP) review to establish the conditions associated with
        modifications to a standard subdivision for a Planned Unit Development (PUD)

        STEP 3: Preliminary subdivision review to establish and create a plat that incorporates the
        modifications made to the conceptual standard subdivision by the PUD


BACKGROUND
The Hinckley family has owned and lived on the property for over 100 years. Over time, some portions
of land have been sold to either family or other individuals. The applicant intends to keep the property
within the family, and wishes to designate specific areas where homes can be built to preserve mature
trees and other desirable features that embody the character and history of the family’s land and create
benefits to be enjoyed by residents within the development.

Currently, two parcels have existing homes and are legal, buildable lots. These two parcels are
addressed as 4880 S. Floribunda Dr. and 2830 E. Sleepy Hollow Dr. The other two parcels are related to,
or tied to, the original parcel and have not been legally approved as buildable lots. These unimproved
parcels were created with separate parcel numbers primarily for tax purposes. In order to create legal
lots, a subdivision process must occur.

PUDs are a conditional use that require a minimum area of land to qualify. The original parcel and it’s
two related parcels have enough land area to qualify for a PUD on their own, but the parcel on Sleepy
Hollow opted to be included in the PUD in order to formally establish a property line that was adjusted
previously, and in support of the perpetual preservation of consolidated open space both on their
existing parcel and within the project overall.

The proposed Planned Unit Development (PUD) involves four existing parcels totaling 1.65 acres (71,642




“Hinckley Estates” Preliminary Subdivision                                                   Page 2 of 13
                                             City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning


square feet) within the R-1-10 zone. Maximum density allowances for a standard subdivision in this zone
is one unit per 10,000 square feet of land.

Density is calculated based on the net area, after required fire access is removed. In the standard
concept subdivision proposed by the applicant, the net land area results in six parcels. All six parcels are
above the minimum lot size required in the R-1-10 zone.

Minimum lot standards that are used to establish a new subdivision are:

    •   10,000 sq. ft minimum lot size
    •   80-foot minimum lot width
    •   60-foot minimum frontage width at the street

Other zoning standards for the R-1-10 zone relevant to a proposal for a PUD:

    •   20-foot front setback from a private right of way
    •   Rear setback of 22 feet (increases with lot size)
    •   Side setbacks totaling 25% of the lot width with a minimum 10% on one side (8 feet on an 80’
        wide lot), leaving 15% on the other (12 feet)
    •   Accessory building setbacks of 4 feet for lots up to 14,600 sq. ft; 5-foot setbacks for lots 14,601 –
        21,200 sq. ft.
    •   Total lot coverage of 31% for structures and 36% total – bonus would allow an increase of 10%
        toward additional hard surfaces
    •   Building height of 32 feet for lots under 15,000 sq. ft. 35 feet for lots 15,001 sq. ft to 1 acre, 40
        feet for lots over 1 acre
    •   Graduated height requires that the structure fit within a building envelope created by a 45-
        degree angle from a point that is 8 feet above the property line.

Through a Planned Unit Development, the total number of allowed units established in the conceptual
standard subdivision can be placed in desired areas within the development instead of in set lots that
are required to meet the minimum size and width of the zone. Planned Unit Developments allow
flexibility of zone standards, with the exception of unit density, building height, graduated height, and
use regulations.

The purpose of a Planned Unit Development is to:
   • Permit flexibility in land use, allow diversification in the interrelationships of various uses and
       structures with their sites and thus offer an alternative to conventional development.
   • The application of planned unit development concepts is intended to encourage unique
       neighborhoods, high quality housing, exceptional design, additional open space, and facilities
       compatible with the present living environment in the city.
   • Ensuring compliance with the purpose protects the health, safety, and public welfare of the
       future inhabitants of, or visitors to the PUD.




“Hinckley Estates” Preliminary Subdivision                                                      Page 3 of 13
                                              City of Holladay
                                   Community and Economic Development
                                              Planning and Zoning


    •   Imaginative site planning and maximizing energy utilization efficiency are significant advantages
        that can be secured through a PUD, with the objective of preserving existing greenery and
        significant trees on site.
    •   The PUD must create unique benefits for both the property owner and the city even though it
        does not allow additional density
    •   Applicants must justify why the project is better than a project developed as the underlying
        zoning would allow

The City seeks to achieve specific objectives through the flexibility of a PUD, as will be noted in the
Technical Review Committee analysis.

Along with a narrative, the applicant has provided
    1. A conceptual standard subdivision
    2. A site plan for a PUD that modifies the standard subdivision and identifies open space, tree
       protection, and establishes allowed buildable areas
    3. A civil set of plans that identifies grading, utilities (with utility will serve letters), and fire access
       details to meet the preliminary subdivision requirements




“Hinckley Estates” Preliminary Subdivision                                                         Page 4 of 13
                                             City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning


STEP 1: CONCEPTUAL SUBDIVISION TO ESTABLISH BASE DENSITY
TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE ANALYSIS

         Verification of compliance with R-1-10 zone
              • Six lots are all larger than the minimum requirement of 10,000 square feet after fire
                   access is removed
              • Land use is residential
         Verification of utility connection serve letters
         UFA approval of fire turn around location and length
              • Fire turn around is located on applicant’s property
              • Applicant has worked with neighbor for access easement for the area from the
                   public segment of Floribunda to where the road enters the applicant’s private
                   property
              • No parking allowed in fire access/turnaround areas


RECOMMENDATION
The TRC recommends that the commission hold the required public hearing and consider comments
presented. The CED Director has found that all required elements of a CONCEPTUAL residential
subdivision proposal have been reviewed and accepted by the TRC and have been determined to be
substantially complete as per the City’s submission requirements. The TRC can recommend The
Commission approve the CONCEPTUAL SUBDIVISION PLAN with the following suggested findings and
conditions.

“I _______ motion for (approval/continuation/denial) of the Conceptual Subdivision for “Hinckley
Estates” a six-lot residential Subdivision in the R-1-10 zone located at 4888, 4890, 4880 S Floribunda
Dr. and 2830 E Sleepy Hollow Dr., finding that:

    1) The development complies with the R-1-10 zone standards
    2) Utility letters have been provided
    3) Fire access requirements are met

And with the conditions that:
   1) A Preliminary plat is submitted and reviewed by the Planning Commission
   2) Any proposed PUD details the location of open space and preserved trees
   3) Final easement details and alignments to be included on the plat
   4) Fire access roads shall be improved to a material to hold 24 tons; no parking signage is required
       within required fire access areas




“Hinckley Estates” Preliminary Subdivision                                                   Page 5 of 13
                                             City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning


STEP 2: CONDITIONAL USE FOR A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE ANALYSIS

The TRC has verified that the applicant has submitted needed drawings and a descriptive narrative
outlining a PUD request. PUDs do not require a minimum area of land for each unit and allow for
structures to containing dwelling units to be located in areas that make sense. Lot lines within a PUD are
a personal preference as to how the applicant seeks to delineate ownership.

        Lot Size: The total land area is 71,642 square feet. The number of units allowed using the
        Maximum Density Calculation (13.04.040) is 7.
                    • Net density after removed fire access results in six dwelling units.
                    • Two dwelling units already exist on the property and two additional units are
                         being proposed. Total of 4 units proposed.
                    • All units are proposed as single dwelling units.
                              o Future desire to add dwelling units as allowed by the established
                                  density either within any identified building areas, or in new building
                                  areas, would require a modification to the PUD through the Planning
                                  Commission.

        Building Setbacks: The spacing of buildings and structures away from property lines, rights-of-
        way, physical hazards and natural features such as streams and other buildings, are essential
        elements of land use planning and of urban design. In particular, setbacks may provide for
        privacy, light, shadow, air movement, passive and active space, vegetation and also contribute
        directly to physical and psychological well-being.

        In a standard subdivision situation setback should be uniform assuming there is a specific
        desired outcome for the setback, such as privacy, public safety, economic development, etc. In a
        PUD situation, flexibility in setbacks can vary depending upon the size and shape of the
        properties, placement of structures, and the presence/preservation of existing vegetation.

        Variability and flexibility of setback may produce equally important outcomes such as the
        protection of natural features, aesthetically pleasing streetscapes, creativity in architectural
        design, and other important goals. Due to the evolution of housing styles over the last few
        decades, the relative high value of land within the community, the desire for architectural
        creativity, and especially the dramatic increase in average house construction costs, setbacks
        shall be applied within a flexible envelope.




“Hinckley Estates” Preliminary Subdivision                                                     Page 6 of 13
                                             City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning


                                       REQUIRED (R-1-10)                  PROPOSED
        Front setback:
        The minimum setback on a       20 ft from the right-of-way line   20 ft from centerline
        private road of 20’
        Rear setback:
        The minimum setback in feet 22 ft avg., no point closer than 19’ 55 feet
        from the rear property line
        Side setback:
        The minimum side setback in 25% of the minimum lot width of       8 feet from neighboring
        feet                        80 feet; minimum 10% (8 feet)         property
        Accessory building setback     4 feet                             4 feet for existing structure
        for 4880 S. Floribunda                                            and an additional 50%, 5
                                                                          feet otherwise


Building Height: PUD
conditions may not alter
allowable height.
Compliance with
§13.14.070 is required. As
the proposed PUD creates
individual lots that are
larger than the minimum
required in the R-1-10
zone, building height would
be associated with each lot
as detailed in the minimum
lot standards on page three
of this report. Structures
would be required to meet
                            Figure 1
graduated height
requirements from each
property line as shown in
Figure 1.


Lot Coverage: Lot coverage should meet the requirements of the underlying zone whenever possible. In
an R-1-10 zone with 10,000 square foot minimum lots, coverage is limited to 31% for structures and 36%
total impervious coverage. The PUD’s buildable areas equate to 22% coverage and an additional 3%
coverage for impervious surfaces. Open space is proposed at 65% of the total area. It may be helpful to




“Hinckley Estates” Preliminary Subdivision                                                 Page 7 of 13
                                             City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning


the Commission to note that open space within the PUD is to be designated, via the plat and not
required to have common ownership.

Purpose statement and objectives:
             1. The stabilization and preservation of the existing or planned land uses in abutting
           areas and surrounding residential neighborhoods;
                         • Existing and planned land uses are residential. This project stabilizes and
                           preserves residential land use by utilizing unclaimed density.
             2. Preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics such as natural
           topography, vegetation and geologic features, and the prevention of soil erosion;
                         • Consolidated open space and preservation of larger areas of trees
             3. Preservation of buildings which are architecturally or historically significant or
           contribute to the character of the city;
                         • Existing homes are intended to be preserved
             4. Maximizing and preserving vegetation and open space and/or other special
           development amenities to provide light, air and privacy, to buffer abutting properties and
           to provide active and passive recreation opportunities for residents of the planned
           development and/or the community;
                         • A significant area of land that could have otherwise been legally utilized for
                           four new structures has instead been dedicated as preserved open space for
                           active and passive recreation for residents of the planned development.
                           Trees on perimeter of property are preserved, providing privacy and
                           buffering abutting properties. Site plans shows trees that are being
                           protected and identified trees that would be removed due to location of
                           building areas. Tree removals require replacement of an equivalent canopy
                           size at maturity.
             5. Minimize significant through traffic impacts on adjacent residential neighborhoods;
                         • 2-4 additional dwelling units would not make a significant traffic impact on
                           the existing neighborhood.
             6. Provide an appropriate transition or buffering between uses of differing intensities
           both on site and off site; and
                         • Residential use and intensity is maintained
             7. Provide safe and convenient vehicle and pedestrian connections between adjacent
           uses. (Ord. 2014-06, 5-1-2014)
                         • Improvement of private road to meet fire access standards to and within the
                           development




“Hinckley Estates” Preliminary Subdivision                                                   Page 8 of 13
                                             City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning


Compatibility: The proposed PUD
is designed in a way to place
structures on open areas of the
property, preserving the existing
trees and vegetation along the
borders.

As the family has long held a
significant portion of land in the
area, larger parcels reflect that
historical ownership. However,
the majority of parcels in the
area are developed to meet R-1-
10 standards. Overall, the area
overall has a variety of home
sizes, styles, and heights. See
Figure 2.
    • Most homes in the
         immediate vicinity, on
         the east side of Wander
         Lane between Wren Rd
         and Old Colony Circle are
         on larger parcels.
    • Development west of
         Wander Lane and east of
         Upper Canal are 10,000
         square feet with smaller
         homes on them.

The access to the site is owned     Figure 2
by an adjacent property owner,
with an easement for access held by the property owner. The owner of the land the road is on will
designate the location of the required 20-foot width, which may require removal of some trees along
the roadway that are shown on the PUD plan. As these trees are outside the property boundary, they
are not included in the scope of the PUD.

One section on the north end of the existing private road is owned by a third property owner. Access for
the existing structure at 4880 S Floribunda can be maintained through the existing access, but the
preliminary plan shifts all access for the new and existing structures off of the property owned by the
third property owner.

Fire access and turnaround is managed entirely on the property, except for the shared access area prior
to the shift onto the applicant’s private property.



“Hinckley Estates” Preliminary Subdivision                                                  Page 9 of 13
                                             City of Holladay
                                  Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning



The addition of the proposed two dwelling units does not degrade the service level on adjacent streets
or create unusual traffic patterns or volumes based on the orientation of driveways, the parking
provided on site, and hours of peak traffic. No parking would be allowed on required fire access areas.

The PUD is laid out to maximize energy utility efficiency by utilizing the existing roadway and locating
structures closer to the road where utility lines are present. All utilities have provided will serve letters
for the two new units.

A larger side setback from the property to the south of the proposed PUD is designed to preserve
existing trees and maintain a buffer and privacy between the properties.


RECOMMENDATION
A motion to approve the PUD is recommended IF, as a result of this discussion, the proposed layout is
determined to be acceptable OR in-meeting modifications to the layout can be articulated by the PC and
determined as acceptable by the applicant.

Planning Commission’s scope of approval is designated by code §13.78.130. Staff urges the commission
to review this section while carrying out the intent of the Planned Unit Development Chapter. PUD
control that is exercised should be the minimum necessary to achieve the purpose of a PUD.



PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, CONDITIONAL USE MOTION
The TRC recommends the commission approve the HINCKLEY ESTATES PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT,
SUBDIVISION PLAN and PRELIMINARY PLAT. Final Plat approval is delegated to Staff approval in
accordance with 13.10A.070.E

Should the PC arrive at a consensus regarding acceptable PUD elements, the following motion, findings
and conditions are suggested;

“I _______ move for approval of a Planned Unit Development for “Hinckley Estates”, a residential four-
unit development within the R-1-10 zone located at 4888 S Floribunda Dr., finding that the proposal;
      1. Is consistent with the future land use map
      2. Complies with the allowed land uses of R-1-10 zone as a single-family residential subdivision.
      3. The proposed density of 4 units is within the allowed density of 7 units
      4. Is granted flexibility to zone standards via the Planning Commission
      5. Meets the purpose statement for a Planned Unit Development
      6. Is compatible with the character of the site, adjacent properties, and development in the
         vicinity of the site
      7. Stabilizes and preserves existing residential uses
      8. Provides for the preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics



“Hinckley Estates” Preliminary Subdivision                                                       Page 10 of 13
                                             City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning


     9. Preserves existing structures, though no historical or architectural significance is identified
     10. Maximizes and preserves vegetation as a buffer between adjacent properties and creates large
         areas of open space that provide passive and active recreation space for the residents of the
         PUD
     11. No significant traffic impacts or degradation of the service level on streets used to access the
         PUD from the addition of two dwelling units
     12. All adjacent uses are residential of similar intensity
     13. Required fire access improvements enhance safety for the PUD and neighboring properties
     14. …other findings as deemed appropriate to support the motion”

With the following suggested conditions (based upon the current layout as proposed):
   1. Tree removal is only permitted in identified buildable areas and vehicular access areas (private
       lane and driveways), in addition to removals necessary for installation of swimming pools or
       other recreational elements in the back yards of the two new dwelling units and the dwelling
       unit on Sleepy Hollow. Equivalent canopy replacement is required for any trees removed in these
       areas.
   2. ….other conditions as determined appropriate.

Contingent upon a motion to approve the PUD as proposed; the TRC has verified that all required
Preliminary level elements of a residential subdivision proposal have been reviewed determined to be
substantially complete as per the City’s submission requirements. However, if elements of the PUD plan
have been modified during this meeting – a revision to the Preliminary Plat may be necessary to
accurately reflect the PC approval details. In which case a motion to continue is recommended.




“Hinckley Estates” Preliminary Subdivision                                                 Page 11 of 13
                                             City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning




STEP 3: PRELIMINARY PLAT DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE ANALYSIS

The TRC has reviewed the supplied preliminary development drawings for compliance with minimum
standards for development in the R-1-10 zone.

    •   PRELIMINARY SITE DEVELOPMENT: all elements as required by Holladay Ord 13.10.050B
         Verification of compliance with R-1-10 zone - density and land use
         Verification of utility connection serve letters
         Utility design and connection locations
         Storm water/erosion control plans
         Inclusion of Storm Water Protection Plans SWPP – required prior to final approval; see
           conditions
         Dust mitigation plan during construction and demolition -required prior to final approval;
           see conditions
         Civil plans being updated to correct access. Any outstanding engineering comments to be
           addressed before final approval
         UFA approval of access shown on PUD site plan. Civil plans and final plat to reflect approved
           access

    •   PRELIMINARY PLAT/OWNERSHIP
         Preparation of Residential Plat – title of plat reflects this land use
         Buildable areas are shown on plat with owned parcels designated as owned and common
           areas (road access) designated as such


RECOMMENDATION
As motion to approve the development and number of residential units within the Preliminary
Subdivision plat for “Hinckley Estates” is directly related to the R-1-10 zone. Proposed alternate site
layout and preservation of open space is contingent upon a PUD approval.

Planning Commission’s scope of approval is designated within §13.10A.070. The TRC can recommend
The Commission approve the PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAN with the following suggested findings
and conditions. Any conditions associated with the Conditional Use Permit for the PUD element would
apply with any approval of the Preliminary Subdivision.

PRELMINARY SUBDIVSION MOTION
the TRC recommends approval of the PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION with the following suggested findings
and conditions;




“Hinckley Estates” Preliminary Subdivision                                                    Page 12 of 13
                                             City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning


“I _______ motion for (approval/continuation/denial) of the Preliminary Plat for “Hinckley Estates” a 4-
unit residential Subdivision in the R-1-10 zone located at 4888, 4890, 4880 S Floribunda Dr. and 2830 E
Sleepy Hollow Dr., finding that:

    1) The development complies with the underlying zone
    2) Utility letters and a title report have been provided
    3) A grading and drainage plan has been provided and the plat notes that required onsite storm
       water retention will be addressed for each dwelling unit with their building permit application
    4) The property is not within a special hazards area and does not require additional geotechnical
       reporting
    5) Fire access requirements are met as shown in PUD site plan; updates to civil set to reflect what is
       shown on the PUD site plan – no fire access on any portion of parcel # 22111580160000 (4867 S
       Floribunda Dr.)
    6) Construction elements and details are found to be acceptable by various divisions the Technical
       Review Committee
    7) PUD elements are found to be incorporated on the approved drawings.

And with the conditions that:
   1) Provide an updated civil plan that reflects accurate access
           a. All comments on the civil set of plans by the City Engineer be addressed prior to final
   2) Final easement details and alignments to be detailed on the plat
   3) SWPP is required to be submitted prior to final or pre-construction, as required by the Assistant
       City Engineer
   4) Dust mitigation plan is required prior to any construction, in a pre-construction meeting, as
       required by Assistant City Engineer
   5) Fire access roads shall be improved to a material to hold 24 tons; no parking signage is required
       within required fire access areas

“Also, within in one year and in accordance with 13.10A.070.E, approval of the FINAL PLAT by the
Technical Review Committee.”




“Hinckley Estates” Preliminary Subdivision                                                  Page 13 of 13
                    NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
            Residential Subdivision PUD – “Hinckley Estates”
Date:                         Tuesday, July 15th 2025
Time:                         As close to 6:00 pm as possible
Location:                     City Hall – City Council Chambers
Hearing Body:                 Planning Commission
Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
continue a public hearing during review and consideration of a subdivision
as a Planned Unit Development plan proposed by the applicant, D. Rennie
to create a new subdivision consisting of 1.65 acres (71,699.76 square feet)
of land. The subdivision is located at 4888 S Floribunda Dr., in the _R-1-10
zone. The subdivision and PUD involves a total of 4 lots with designated
building areas and areas of protected open space. Two of the lots have
existing homes on them, which will remain, the other two lots will
accommodate two new structures in designated building areas. This
application will be reviewed by the Planning Commission for compliance with Holladay
Ordinance 13.10A *No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with this application. *

Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm 07/14/2025 to Carrie Marsh,
cmarsh@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments received by the designated times
will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.

Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to join this
meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch the
video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay Website.
 ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on 07/02/20255 by order of the Community and Economic Development
 Director, Jonathan Teerlink, to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of
 your residence, please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.




                   NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
           Residential Subdivision PUD – “Hinckley Estates”
 Date:                          Tuesday, July 15th 2025
 Time:                          As close to 6:00 pm as possible
 Location:                      City Hall – City Council Chambers
 Hearing Body:                  Planning Commission
Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
continue a public hearing during review and consideration of a subdivision
as a Planned Unit Development plan proposed by the applicant, D. Rennie
to create a new subdivision consisting of 1.65 acres (71,699.76 square feet)
of land. The subdivision is located at 4888 S Floribunda Dr., in the _R-1-10
zone. The subdivision and PUD involves a total of 4 lots with designated
building areas and areas of protected open space. Two of the lots have
existing homes on them, which will remain, the other two lots will
accommodate two new structures in designated building areas. This
application will be reviewed by the Planning Commission for compliance with Holladay
Ordinance 13.10A *No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with this application. *
    **No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with this application. **
 Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm 07/14/2025 to Carrie Marsh,
 cmarsh@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments received by the designated
 times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.
 Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to join this
 meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
 agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch
ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on 07/02/20255 by order of the Community and Economic Development Director,
Jonathan Teerlink, to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your residence,
please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.
                         Hinckley Estates Proposed Subdivision and PUD.




                                                         Dr
                                                  llow
                                    Sle epy H o




                                                                             S 28 70 E
W an de r Ln




                                                                                         Floribunda
5/2/2025                                                                         1:1,131Heights
                                                              0   0.01    0.01            0.02 mi
               Subdivision PUD Boundary
                                                              0    0.01      0.02               0.04 km
                                                                  e
                      Hinckley Estates
                                  Vie
                                      w
                                        A v Proposed Subdivision and PUD.

                                            V alle y




                       W
                       an
                           de
                            r
                            Ln




                                                                                                                                                                             Bron Breck St
                                                                                                                                          Wa ilu a W a y         Wa
                                                                                                                                                                           il u
                                                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ay


                                                                                        S 28 70 E




                                                                                                                                              W ai m e a W




                                                                                                                                                                                       W a lla c e L n
                                                                                                       Uppe r Can a l
                                                       Wander L




                                                                                                                            S Na




                                                                                                                                                   ay
                                                                                                                             nilo
                                                                                                                               aD
                                                         n
                            R e genc y St




                                                                                                                                   r




                                                                      Old
                                                                            C o l on y C i r




                 ay
     so   nt W
S wa




                                                                                                                                                                            Dr
                                                                                                                                                                      la
                                                                                                                                                             K oh a
5/2/2025
                                                                                                                                       1:4,523
                                                                                                                        0     0.03     0.06                      0.11 mi

                                                                                                                        0     0.04     0.09                      0.18 km




                                                                                                    Sources: Esri, TomTom, Garmin, FAO, NOAA, USGS, (c) OpenStreetMap
                                                                                                    contributors, and the GIS User Community, Maxar
                                                                                                                                                                                    DKR DESIGN, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                    3361 W CRAMDEN DR LEHI
                                                                                                                                                                                    UTAH 84102



                                                                                                                                                                                    INTERIM REVIEW ONLY




                                                                                                                                                                                    OWNER




                                                                                                                                                                                    ARCHITECT




                                                                                                                                                                                    CIVIL ENGINEER




                                                                                                                                                                                    LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT

                                                                                                                               ELEVATION NOTE
                                                                                                                               THESE ELEVATIONS ARE NOT REPRESENTATIVE OF FINAL     STRUCTURAL ENGINEER
                                                                                                                               DESIGN. THIS IS TO SHOW REPRESENTATION OF THE TWO
                                                                                                                               FUTURE CUSTOM RESIDENTIAL HOMES ON TWO
                                                                                                                               PROPOSED LOTS WITHIN THEIR BUILDABLE AREAS.




                                                                                                                                                                                   SUBDIVISION & PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                   HINCKLEY ESTATES

                                                                                                                                                                                                             4888 & 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                                                                                                                      MAX. HEIGHT
                                                                                                                                                            35' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                Roof
                                                                                                                                                              28' - 0"


                                                                                                                                                                   L2
                                                                                                                                                              14' - 0"


                                                                                                                                                                    L1
                                                                                                                                                                0' - 0"

                                                                                                      EAST ELEVATION B
                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                      1/16" = 1'-0"




                                                                                MAX. HEIGHT                                                             MAX. HEIGHT
                                                                                      35' - 0"                                                                35' - 0"
                                                                                        Roof                                                                    Roof
                                                                                      28' - 0"                                                                28' - 0"


                                                                                           L2                                                                        L2
                                                                                      14' - 0"                                                                  14' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                   REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                   NO. DESCRIPTION            DATE

                                                                                            L1                                                                       L1
                                                                                        0' - 0"                                                                  0' - 0"

                                                            NORTH ELEVATION A                                      EAST ELEVATION A
                                                        2                                                      3
                                                            1/16" = 1'-0"                                          1/16" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                 MAX. HEIGHT
                                                                                                                                                       35' - 0"                    03/31/22
                                                                                                                                                         Roof
                                                                                                                                                       28' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                   SUBDIVISION &
                                                                                                                                                                                   PUD
                                                                                                                                                               L2
                                                                                                                                                          14' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                   Architectural
                                                                                                                                                               L1                  Building
                                                                                                                                                           0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                   Elevations
                                       EAST ELEVATION
                                   4
                                       1/16" = 1'-0"
             7/8/2025 1:41:22 PM
PLOT DATE:




                                                                                                                                                                                   A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DKR DESIGN, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3361 W CRAMDEN DR LEHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UTAH 84102



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERIM REVIEW ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 4
                                                                                                                                                                                        REC. OF SURVEY                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 3
                                                                                                                                                                                        BY STANTEC
                                                                                                                                                                                        # 22-11-105-049 & 050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SITE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ROS SUBDIVISION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5'                                                                                                                     LOT 1 - 2830 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR.                     16,802 SQ FT    0.39 ACRES                               OWNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 2 - 4880 S FLORIBUNDA DR.                        21,856 SQ FT    0.50 ACRES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 3 - 4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)                  13,264.69 SQ FT 0.304 ACRES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 4 - 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)                  19,777.53 SQ FT 0.454 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CARPORT                                                                                                                                                                                            ARCHITECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL SITE                                           71,700.22 SQ FT 1.65 ACRES



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CIVIL ENGINEER

                                                                                                                                                                                                    WOOD                                                                                                                                 ZONING INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                    DECK               EM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 3                                                                                                         LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ZONE : R-1-10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SETBACK :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REAR SETBACKS: LOT SIZE 13001-16000 SQFT AVG REAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SETBACK IS 25' WITH NO POINT CLOSER THAN 21 FT SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13.14.053
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FRONT SETBACK: WITH 20FT AND ABOVE RIGHT OF WAY                                                      STRUCTURAL ENGINEER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WIDTH FRONT SETBACK WILL BE 20FT FROM THE RIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONCRETE                                                                                             OF WAY LINE. SEE 13.14.055
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R.O.W. AS PER ENTRY # 1692447                                         BUILDING HEIGHT : MAXIMUM HEIGHT 32 FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BOOK.1675; PAGE. 60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MOUNTAIN FUEL GAS LINE                                                LOT 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ZONE : R-1-10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SETBACK :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REAR SETBACKS: LOT SIZE 19001-22000 SQFT AVG REAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SETBACK IS 34' WITH NO POINT CLOSER THAN 29 FT SEE
                                                                                                                                                                  VEGETATION                                                                                                                                                                      13.14.053
                                                                                                                                                                  OUTLINE                                                                                                                                                                         FRONT SETBACK: WITH 20FT AND ABOVE RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WIDTH FRONT SETBACK WILL BE 20FT FROM THE RIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF WAY LINE. SEE 13.14.055




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SUBDIVISION & PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HINCKLEY ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BUILDING HEIGHT : MAXIMUM HEIGHT 35 F

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REMOVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4888 & 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                                                                                                                                                      REMOVE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CONCEPTUAL ROS SUBDIVISION NOTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PURPOSE OF THIS DRAWING IS TO PROVIDE CONCEPTUAL STUDY OF THE LOTS WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ROUGH STUDY OF WHERE PRIVATE ROAD AND BUILDABLE AREAS CAN BE LOCATED. THIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PLAN IS SERVED IN CONJUNCTION WITH PUD SUBDIVISION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WITH THIS SUBDIVISION, WE WOULD MEET THE 80 ’ DIAMETER BUILDABLE CIRCLE TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ABLE TO BUILD A SINGLE HOME, HOWEVER DUE TO THE LOT BEING ON THE INSIDE. THERE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REMOVE
                                                                                                                                   REMOVE                                                                                                                                                                                                IS NO ACCESS TO THE LOT. WE WOULD NEED TO CREATE PRIVATE ROAD CUTTING FROM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 4 (PARCEL ID# 22-11-157-004). PARCEL 3 (PARCEL ID# 22-11-157-010) IS ALSO WHERE A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT OF MATURE TREES AND VEGETATION CURRENTLY ARE. MOST TREES AND VEGETATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WILL NEED TO BE REMOVED.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         **THE CONCEPTUAL PLANS PROVIDED ARE NOT REPRESENTATIVE OF A COMPLETE OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FINAL DESIGN. IT IS THE OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO CONTRACT WITH A PROFESSIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THAT IS LICENSED IN THIS STATE TO COMPLETE A DESIGN THAT CONFORMS TO REQUIRED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT SIZES, SETBACKS, ROAD WIDTHS, UTILITIES, CITY ORDINANCES ETC. THE RECIPIENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ASSUMES FULL RESPONSIBILITY AND HOLDS DKR DESIGN HARMLESS OF ANY AND ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOSSES OR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM YOUR USE OF THIS DATA. THE USER OF THIS DATA
                                                                                                                          REMOVE                                                                                                                                                                                                         FURTHER AGREES TO HOLD HARMLESS, INDEMNIFY AND DEFEND DKR DESIGN LLC AND IT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CONSULTANTS FROM AND AGAINST ALL CLAIMS WHICH MIGHT ARISE FROM THE MISUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARCEL 5-TITLE REPORT                           OF THE INFORMATION PROVIDED HEREIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A NON-EXCLUSIVE 30 FOOT RIGHT-OF-WAY,
                                                                                            40' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BUILDABLE AREA                                                   APPURTENANT TO PARCELS 2, 3 AND 4, FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PURPOSES OF ACCESS, INGRESS AND EGRESS, AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DEFINED AND DISCLOSED IN THAT CERTAIN
                                                                                                                                                            BUILDABLE AREA                                                                                                               GRANT OF RIGHT-OF-WAY RECORDED MARCH 5,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1996 AS ENTRY NO. 6295035 7344 AT PAGE 781 IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RECORDER.




                                                                                                                                            VEGETATION
                                                                                                                                            OUTLINE




                                                                   LOT 2
                                                                   PARCEL # 22-11-157-015
                                                                   OWNER STEED, SCOTT A                                                 VEGETATION AND
LOT 1                                                                                                                                   MATURE TREES WILL
                                                                                                                                        NEED TO BE REMOVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NO. DESCRIPTION            DATE



                                                       WANDER
                                                      WOODS SUB.                                                               VEGETATION
                                                                                                                               OUTLINE

                                                                                                                                                                         VEGETATION
                                                                                                                                                                         OUTLINE
                                                                                                                                                 MOST OF THESE TREES AND
                                                                                                                                                 VEGETATION WILL NEED TO BE
                                                                                                                                                 REMOVED FOR BACKYARD SPACE                                                                                                      WV
                                                                                                               25' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OWNER AMY L DELLENBACH FAM TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      06/23/2025




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARCEL # 22-11-158-003
                                                                                                                                                    FLORIBUNDA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUBDIVISION &
                                                                                                                                                      HEIGHTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DELLENBACH, AMY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Site Plan_TYP


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 4
                                                                                                       LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                      PARCEL # 22-11-157-007
                                                                                                         PARCEL # 22-11-157-006
                                                                                                                                                                                      OWNER VANAUSDAL, CYNTHIA G
                                                                                                       OWNER PEARSON, MATTHEW L & ANGELA M; JT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SUBDIVISION
                                        Site Plan
                                    1
                                        1" = 20'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (CURRENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BOUNDARY)
              7/8/2025 1:41:22 PM
 PLOT DATE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AC101A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DKR DESIGN, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FIVE LOTS SUBDIVISION STUDY                                         3361 W CRAMDEN DR LEHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PURPOSE OF THIS DRAWING IS TO PROVIDE CONCEPTUAL STUDY OF THE LOTS WITH      UTAH 84102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FIVE UNITS TOTAL. THIS PLAN IS SERVED TO SHOW MORE HOME EVEN WITH TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SUBDIVISION. THE MAIN GREEN SPACE WILL BE REMOVED FOR ADDITIONAL HOME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INTERIM REVIEW ONLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ZONING INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                    REC. OF SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                    BY STANTEC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT SIZE 13,001-16,000
                                                                                                                                                                    # 22-11-105-049 & 050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ZONE : R-1-10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SETBACK :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REAR SETBACKS: LOT SIZE 13001-16000 SQFT AVG REAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SETBACK IS 25' WITH NO POINT CLOSER THAN 21 FT SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                            1.5'                                                                                                                                           13.14.053                                                                                                        OWNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FRONT SETBACK: WITH 20FT AND ABOVE RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WIDTH FRONT SETBACK WILL BE 20FT FROM THE RIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OF WAY LINE. SEE 13.14.055




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 22' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BUILDING HEIGHT : MAXIMUM HEIGHT 32 FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CARPORT                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ARCHITECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT SIZE 10,001-13,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHED                                                                                                  ZONE : R-1-10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SETBACK :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REAR SETBACKS: LOT SIZE 10,001-13,000 SQFT AVG REAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SETBACK IS 22' WITH NO POINT CLOSER THAN 18 FT SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13.14.053                                                                                                        CIVIL ENGINEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FRONT SETBACK: WITH 20FT AND ABOVE RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WIDTH FRONT SETBACK WILL BE 20FT FROM THE RIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                WOOD                                                                                                                                                       OF WAY LINE. SEE 13.14.055
                                                                                                                                                                                DECK               EM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BUILDING HEIGHT : MAXIMUM HEIGHT 32 F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT


                                                                                                                                                     10,497 SF                              10,950 SF                                                                                                                             CONCEPTUAL ROS SUBDIVISION NOTE                                                                                           STRUCTURAL ENGINEER

                                                                                       15,750 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                         GM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRIVE                                                                                                        PURPOSE OF THIS DRAWING IS TO PROVIDE CONCEPTUAL STUDY OF THE LOTS WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R.O.W. AS PER ENTRY # 1692447                                         ROUGH STUDY OF WHERE PRIVATE ROAD AND BUILDABLE AREAS CAN BE LOCATED. THIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BOOK.1675; PAGE. 60                                                   PLAN IS SERVED TO SHOW MORE COMPACITY EVEN WITH TYPICAL SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MOUNTAIN FUEL GAS LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WITH THIS SUBDIVISION, WE WOULD MEET THE 80 ’ DIAMETER BUILDABLE CIRCLE TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ABLE TO BUILD A SINGLE HOME. HOWEVER, IT GOT RID OF MAIN GREEN SPACE FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ADDITIONAL HOME

                                                                                                                                              VEGETATION                                                                                                                                                                          **THE CONCEPTUAL PLANS PROVIDED ARE NOT REPRESENTATIVE OF A COMPLETE OR
                                                                                                                                              OUTLINE                                                                                                                                                                             FINAL DESIGN. IT IS THE OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO CONTRACT WITH A PROFESSIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THAT IS LICENSED IN THIS STATE TO COMPLETE A DESIGN THAT CONFORMS TO REQUIRED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT SIZES, SETBACKS, ROAD WIDTHS, UTILITIES, CITY ORDINANCES ETC. THE RECIPIENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ASSUMES FULL RESPONSIBILITY AND HOLDS DKR DESIGN HARMLESS OF ANY AND ALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUBDIVISION & PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HINCKLEY ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOSSES OR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM YOUR USE OF THIS DATA. THE USER OF THIS DATA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FURTHER AGREES TO HOLD HARMLESS, INDEMNIFY AND DEFEND DKR DESIGN LLC AND IT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONSULTANTS FROM AND AGAINST ALL CLAIMS WHICH MIGHT ARISE FROM THE MISUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF THE INFORMATION PROVIDED HEREIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4888 & 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                                                                                                                                  REMOVE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRIVE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SITE PLAN LEGENDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REMOVE
                                                                                                                      REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONCRETE/ PRECAST                               TREE CANOPY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONCRETE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HARDSCAPE                                       BUILDABLE AREA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HARDSCAPE, PORCH AREA                           EXISTING HOME

                                                                                                             REMOVE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARCEL 5-TITLE REPORT                                            COMMON SPACE, SHARING                           FIRE ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A NON-EXCLUSIVE 30 FOOT RIGHT-OF-WAY,                            ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  APPURTENANT TO PARCELS 2, 3 AND 4, FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PURPOSES OF ACCESS, INGRESS AND EGRESS, AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEFINED AND DISCLOSED IN THAT CERTAIN                            REMOVE                                          PRIMARY SETBACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRANT OF RIGHT-OF-WAY RECORDED MARCH 5,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1996 AS ENTRY NO. 6295035 7344 AT PAGE 781 IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY                                                                               ACCESSORY SETBACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMMON SPACE, GREEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RECORDER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SPACE


                                                                                                                                                                                            13,559 SF                                                                                                                                              GREEN SPACE, GRASS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LANDSCAPE, VEGETATION
                                                                                                                               VEGETATION
                                                                                                                               OUTLINE




                                                                                                                                 19,423 SF
                                                              LOT 2
                                                              PARCEL # 22-11-157-015
                                                              OWNER STEED, SCOTT A
LOT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NO. DESCRIPTION            DATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      25' - 0"
                                                  WANDER
                                                 WOODS SUB.                                                       VEGETATION
                                                                                                                  OUTLINE

                                                                                                                                                     VEGETATION
                                                                                                                                                     OUTLINE
                                                                                                  34' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OWNER AMY L DELLENBACH FAM TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WV

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           04/29/2025




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARCEL # 22-11-158-003
                                                                                                                                       FLORIBUNDA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SUBDIVISION &
                                                                                                                                         HEIGHTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DELLENBACH, AMY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PUD
                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Site


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 4
                                                                                           LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                                  PARCEL # 22-11-157-007
                                                                                             PARCEL # 22-11-157-006
                                                                                                                                                                  OWNER VANAUSDAL, CYNTHIA G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Plan_FIVE
                                                                                           OWNER PEARSON, MATTHEW L & ANGELA M; JT
                                       Site Plan_Five Lots
                                   1
                                       1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOTS STUDY
             7/8/2025 1:41:22 PM
PLOT DATE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AC101B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DKR DESIGN, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SIX LOTS SUBDIVISION STUDY                                     3361 W CRAMDEN DR LEHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UTAH 84102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PURPOSE OF THIS DRAWING IS TO PROVIDE CONCEPTUAL STUDY OF THE LOTS WITH SIX UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOTAL. THIS PLAN IS SERVED TO SHOW MORE HOME EVEN WITH TYPICAL SUBDIVISION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MATURE TREES AND GREEN SPACE ARE TO BE REMOVED TO ACCOMMODATE NEW HOMES           INTERIM REVIEW ONLY




                                                                                                                                                                                       REC. OF SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                       BY STANTEC
                                                                                                                                                                                       # 22-11-105-049 & 050                                                                                                                                                     ZONING INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT SIZE 13,001-16,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ZONE : R-1-10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.5'                                                                                                                                            SETBACK :                                                                                                   OWNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REAR SETBACKS: LOT SIZE 13001-16000 SQFT AVG REAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SETBACK IS 25' WITH NO POINT CLOSER THAN 21 FT SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13.14.053




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FRONT SETBACK: WITH 20FT AND ABOVE RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WIDTH FRONT SETBACK WILL BE 20FT FROM THE RIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CARPORT                                                                                                     OF WAY LINE. SEE 13.14.055                                                                         ARCHITECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BUILDING HEIGHT : MAXIMUM HEIGHT 32 FT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT SIZE 10,001-13,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ZONE : R-1-10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SETBACK :                                                                                                   CIVIL ENGINEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REAR SETBACKS: LOT SIZE 10,001-13,000 SQFT AVG REAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SETBACK IS 22' WITH NO POINT CLOSER THAN 18 FT SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   WOOD                                                                                                                                                                   13.14.053
                                                                                                                                                                                                   DECK                  EM                                                                                                                                               FRONT SETBACK: WITH 20FT AND ABOVE RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WIDTH FRONT SETBACK WILL BE 20FT FROM THE RIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OF WAY LINE. SEE 13.14.055                                                                         LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BUILDING HEIGHT : MAXIMUM HEIGHT 32 F

                                                                                                                                                        10,135 SF                                                 10,494 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STRUCTURAL ENGINEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONCEPTUAL ROS SUBDIVISION NOTE
                                                                                        14,338 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R.O.W. AS PER ENTRY # 1692447                                                 PURPOSE OF THIS DRAWING IS TO PROVIDE CONCEPTUAL STUDY OF THE LOTS WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BOOK.1675; PAGE. 60                                                           ROUGH STUDY OF WHERE PRIVATE ROAD AND BUILDABLE AREAS CAN BE LOCATED. THIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MOUNTAIN FUEL GAS LINE                                                        PLAN IS SERVED TO SHOW MORE COMPACITY EVEN WITH TYPICAL SUBDIVISION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WITH THIS SUBDIVISION, WE WOULD MEET THE 80 ’ DIAMETER BUILDABLE CIRCLE TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ABLE TO BUILD A SINGLE HOME. HOWEVER, IT GOT RID OF MAIN GREEN SPACE FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ADDITIONAL HOME
                                                                                                                                                 VEGETATION
                                                                                                                                                 OUTLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                         **THE CONCEPTUAL PLANS PROVIDED ARE NOT REPRESENTATIVE OF A COMPLETE OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FINAL DESIGN. IT IS THE OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO CONTRACT WITH A PROFESSIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THAT IS LICENSED IN THIS STATE TO COMPLETE A DESIGN THAT CONFORMS TO REQUIRED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUBDIVISION & PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT SIZES, SETBACKS, ROAD WIDTHS, UTILITIES, CITY ORDINANCES ETC. THE RECIPIENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HINCKLEY ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ASSUMES FULL RESPONSIBILITY AND HOLDS DKR DESIGN HARMLESS OF ANY AND ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOSSES OR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM YOUR USE OF THIS DATA. THE USER OF THIS DATA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REMOVE                                                                                                                      FURTHER AGREES TO HOLD HARMLESS, INDEMNIFY AND DEFEND DKR DESIGN LLC AND IT
                                                                                                                                                                                     REMOVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4888 & 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONSULTANTS FROM AND AGAINST ALL CLAIMS WHICH MIGHT ARISE FROM THE MISUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OF THE INFORMATION PROVIDED HEREIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                               R28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0" -
                                                                                                     22' - 0"                                                                                                             70' - 0"                                                                                                                               SITE PLAN LEGENDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE/ PRECAST                              TREE CANOPY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HARDSCAPE                                      BUILDABLE AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          "
                                                                                                                                            10,059 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARCEL 5-TITLE REPORT                                           HARDSCAPE, PORCH AREA                          EXISTING HOME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A NON-EXCLUSIVE 30 FOOT RIGHT-OF-WAY,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 APPURTENANT TO PARCELS 2, 3 AND 4, FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6' -                                                             PURPOSES OF ACCESS, INGRESS AND EGRESS, AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R2                                                                 DEFINED AND DISCLOSED IN THAT CERTAIN                           COMMON SPACE, SHARING
                                                                                                                                                                          30' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                               ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FIRE ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GRANT OF RIGHT-OF-WAY RECORDED MARCH 5,
                                                                                                                                                                                       10' - 0"                                                                                                                  1996 AS ENTRY NO. 6295035 7344 AT PAGE 781 IN
                                                                                                                                                                     20' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RECORDER.                                                       REMOVE                                         PRIMARY SETBACK



                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11,877 SF                                                                                                                                                       COMMON SPACE, GREEN                            ACCESSORY SETBACK
                                                                                                                               VEGETATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SPACE
                                                                                                                               OUTLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GREEN SPACE, GRASS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LANDSCAPE, VEGETATION




                                                               LOT 2
                                                               PARCEL # 22-11-157-015
                                                               OWNER STEED, SCOTT A
LOT 1


                                                                                                                                            11,382 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NO. DESCRIPTION            DATE


                                                   WANDER
                                                  WOODS SUB.                                                      VEGETATION
                                                                                                                  OUTLINE

                                                                                                                                                        VEGETATION
                                                                                                                                                        OUTLINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      22' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OWNER AMY L DELLENBACH FAM TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WV

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4/29/2025




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARCEL # 22-11-158-003
                                                                                                                                       FLORIBUNDA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUBDIVISION &
                                                                                                                                         HEIGHTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DELLENBACH, AMY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Site Plan_SIX


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 4
                                                                                            LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                     PARCEL # 22-11-157-007
                                                                                              PARCEL # 22-11-157-006
                                                                                                                                                                                     OWNER VANAUSDAL, CYNTHIA G
                                                                                            OWNER PEARSON, MATTHEW L & ANGELA M; JT

                                    1
                                        Site Plan_Six Lots                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOTS STUDY
                                        1" = 20'-0"
              7/8/2025 1:41:23 PM
 PLOT DATE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AC101C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DKR DESIGN, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3361 W CRAMDEN DR LEHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UTAH 84102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INTERIM REVIEW ONLY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 3


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REC. OF SURVEY                                                                                                                     8' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BY STANTEC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       # 22-11-105-049 & 050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4' - 0"                                                                                                              SITE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4' - 0"                                                                                                              SLEEPY HOLLOW HILLS PUD SUBDIVISION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.5'                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 1 - 2830 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR.                    16,802 SQ FT 0.390 ACRES                         OWNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 2 - 4880 S FLORIBUNDA DR.                       21,856 SQ FT 0.500 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   155.0                                                                                                                                                             LOT 3 - 4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)                 19,680 SQ FT 0.451 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3/1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ARCHITECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -5                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 4 - 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)                 13,304 SQ FT 0.305 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        88'                                                                               CARPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL SITE                                          71,642 SQ FT 1.646 ACRES              100%


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMMON AREA                                           9455 SQFT                           13%        CIVIL ENGINEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMMON AREA WILL BE TAKEN CARE BY OWNER OF THE HOME WHERE THE COMMON AREA IS LOCATED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WOOD                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOR THE GREEN COMMON IS FOR PRESEVATION OF THE HABITATS. RESIDENTS IN THESE SUBDIVISION CAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EM                                                                                                                                                                                         GO TO PORCH AREA FOR SIGHTSEEING OR PICNICS. FOR THE PRIVATE ROAD STARTING IN LOT 4888 AND END
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DECK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AT 4880 BOTH OWNERS WILL BE SHARING PRIVATE STREET. MAINTENANCE AND SNOW PLOW WILL BE TAKEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    90.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CARE OF BY OWNER OF LOT 4880 AND LOR 4888                                                            LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SQFT                               PERCENTAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 1 - 4880 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                                           LOT 1 - 2830 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING HOME                                                                                               USING ACCEPTABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL PROPERTY AREA                                 71642                                 100%       STRUCTURAL ENGINEER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GM
                                                                                  EXISTING HOME                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALTERNATIVE TO 120'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL EXISTING BUILDING AREA                         4548                                  6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HAMMERHEAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL BUILDABLE AREA                                26262                                 37%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R.O.W. AS PER ENTRY # 1692447
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BOOK.1675; PAGE. 60                                                                       TOTAL LANDSCAPED AREA & GREEN SPACE                 36738                                 52%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MOUNTAIN FUEL GAS LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL ROAD AREA (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE) + DRIVEWAY       8093                                  11%



                                                                                                                                                                  VEGETATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NOTE: ADDITIONAL BUILDABLE AREA AROUND EXISTING HOME IN LOT 1 IS FOR FUTURE IMPROVEMENT OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ADDITION TO HOME. THE AREA COVERS CARPORT SHED AND EXTENDED PERIMETER AROUND THE EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                  OUTLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         90.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HOME. TOTAL AREA IS 7480 OR 10% OF TOTAL SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        °




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUBDIVISION & PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HINCKLEY ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8' -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4888 & 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SCOPE OF WORK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROPOSING TWO NEW SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ONE ON LOT 3 AND ONE ON LOT 4. MINIMUM TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   70' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                         REMOVED AND KEEPING GREEN SPACE FOR SOME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                      DEPENDS ON THE SIZE OF THE                      COMMON AREA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STREET THIS TREE MAY BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REMOVED OR BE TRIMMED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DOWN TO MEET FIRE ACCESS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ____
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REQUIREMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ZONING INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A201     2




                                                                                                                                                                      10' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ____


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A201                                                                                                                                                                              1. R-1-10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. SETBACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BARRIER/FENCE TO BE DESIGN                                FRONT SETBACK LOT 4888 - 30' FROM CENTER OF RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WITH FINAL HOME DESIGN                                                   LOT 4890 - 20' FROM LINE OF THE RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                 88' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REAR SETBACK : < 40'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SIDE SETBACK : LOT 4880 & 4890 - 8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2' - 0"                                                                                                                                        LOT 4888 - 10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. BUILDING HEIGHT - NOT EXCEED 35 FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. DENSITY: LOTS ALLOWED - 7 TOTALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROPOSED 4 TOTALS WITH TWO EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 32' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARCEL 5-TITLE REPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A NON-EXCLUSIVE 30 FOOT RIGHT-OF-WAY,

                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 3 - 4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR (NEW)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    APPURTENANT TO PARCELS 2, 3 AND 4, FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PURPOSES OF ACCESS, INGRESS AND EGRESS, AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN SUBDIVISION & PUD NOTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DEFINED AND DISCLOSED IN THAT CERTAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GRANT OF RIGHT-OF-WAY RECORDED MARCH 5,         THE PURPOSE OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT IS TO PERMIT FLEXIBILITY IN LAND USE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1996 AS ENTRY NO. 6295035 7344 AT PAGE 781 IN   ALLOW DIVERSIFICATION IN THE INTERRELATIONSHIPS OF VARIOUS USES AND
                                                                                                                       41' - 3"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY              STRUCTURES WITH THEIR SITES AND THUS OFFER AN ALTERNATIVE TO CONVENTIONAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4                                                                                                      RECORDER.                                       DEVELOPMENT. THE OBJECTIVE IS TO PRESERVE EXISTING GREENERY AND SIGNIFICANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ____


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A201                                                                                                                                                    TREES ON SITE. THE PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS MUST CREATE UNIQUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BENEFITS FOR BOTH THE PROPERTY OWNER AND THE CITY EVEN THOUGH IT DOES NOT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ALLOW ADDITIONAL DENSITY. APPLICANTS MUST JUSTIFY TO THE PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                              132' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMMISSION
                                                                                                                                       VEGETATION
                                                                                                                                       OUTLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                150' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STORM WATER ANALYSIS AND INFILTRATION REPORTS WILL BE PROVIDED WITH FUTURE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UTILITY EASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUILDING PERMITS. PARCEL 3 AND 4 WILL HAVE ITS OWN STORM WATER DRAINAGE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EACH HOME WILL HAVE ITS OWN ELECTRICAL BOX.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LANDSCAPE IS TO BE DESIGNED WITH CURRENT GREENERY EFFORT. MINIMAL MATURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TREE REMOVE OR TO BE REPLANTED NEARBY. COMMON SPACE IS LOCATED IN THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    118' - 2 1/8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MENT, REFE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MIDDLE OF LOT 1, 2 & 3. ALL MATURE TREES AND GREENERY WILL BE PRESERVED IN
                                                              LOT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COMMON AREA.
                                                              PARCEL # 22-11-157-015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8' - 0"




                                                              OWNER STEED, SCOTT A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  **THE CONCEPTUAL PLANS PROVIDED ARE NOT REPRESENTATIVE OF APPROVED OR
LOT 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R TO CIVIL PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMPLETE OR FINAL DESIGN. IT IS THE OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO CONTRACT WITH A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROFESSIONAL THAT IS LICENSED IN THIS STATE TO COMPLETE A DESIGN THAT
                                                                                                                                  55' - 4 1/8"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONFORMS TO REQUIRED LOT SIZES, SETBACKS, ROAD WIDTHS, UTILITIES, CITY                               REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 150' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ORDINANCES ETC. THE RECIPIENT ASSUMES FULL RESPONSIBILITY AND HOLDS DKR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NO. DESCRIPTION            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DESIGN LLC HARMLESS OF ANY AND ALL LOSSES OR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM YOUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    USE OF THIS DATA. THE USER OF THIS DATA FURTHER AGREES TO HOLD HARMLESS,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1                                                                                              INDEMNIFY AND DEFEND DKR DESIGN LLC AND IT CONSULTANTS FROM AND AGAINST ALL
                                                 WANDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ____
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CLAIMS WHICH MIGHT ARISE FROM THE MISUSE OF THE INFORMATION PROVIDED HEREIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A201
                                                                                                                                                 64' - 7 15/16"




                                                WOODS SUB.                                                               VEGETATION
                                                                                                                         OUTLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 4 - 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20' - 0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SITE PLAN LEGENDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONCRETE/ PRECAST                                  TREE CANOPY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONCRETE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OWNER AMY L DELLENBACH FAM TR
                                                                                                                                                                                            REMOVE TREES IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HARDSCAPE                                          BUILDABLE AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4/29/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                            BUILDABLE AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARCEL # 22-11-158-003
                                                                                                                                                 FLORIBUNDA                                 150' FROM EAST BOUNDARY LINE OR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HARDSCAPE, PORCH AREA                              EXISTING HOME                   SUBDIVISION &
                                                                                                                                                   HEIGHTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DELLENBACH, AMY
                                                                                                                                                                                            EDGE OF THE STREET TO
                                                                                                                                                                                            DETERMINE FURTHEST POINT FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                            BUILDABLE AREA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMMON SPACE, SHARING                              FIRE ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Site Plan_PUD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 4
                                                                                                  LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARCEL # 22-11-157-007
                                                                                                    PARCEL # 22-11-157-006                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REMOVE                                             PRIMARY SETBACK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUBDIVISON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OWNER VANAUSDAL, CYNTHIA G
                                                                                                  OWNER PEARSON, MATTHEW L & ANGELA M; JT

                                       CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ACCESSORY SETBACK
                                   1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMMON SPACE, GREEN
                                       1" = 20'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SPACE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GREEN SPACE, GRASS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LANDSCAPE, VEGETATION
             7/8/2025 1:41:23 PM
PLOT DATE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AC102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DKR DESIGN, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3361 W CRAMDEN DR LEHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UTAH 84102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INTERIM REVIEW ONLY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 3


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REC. OF SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BY STANTEC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         # 22-11-105-049 & 050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4' - 0"                                                                                                        SLEEPY HOLLOW HILLS PUD SUBDIVISION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5'                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 1 - 2830 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR.                    16,802 SQ FT 0.390 ACRES                         OWNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 2 - 4880 S FLORIBUNDA DR.                       21,856 SQ FT 0.500 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          155.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 3 - 4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)                 19,680 SQ FT 0.451 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5                            "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ARCHITECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11   5/8                                                                            CARPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 4 - 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)                 13,304 SQ FT 0.305 ACRES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     78' -                                                                                     SHED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL SITE                                          71,642 SQ FT 1.646 ACRES              100%

                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMMON AREA                                           9455 SQFT                           13%        CIVIL ENGINEER
                                                            18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMMON AREA WILL BE TAKEN CARE BY OWNER OF THE HOME WHERE THE COMMON AREA IS LOCATED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WOOD                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FOR THE GREEN COMMON IS FOR PRESEVATION OF THE HABITATS. RESIDENTS IN THESE SUBDIVISION CAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EM                                                                                                                                                                                GO TO PORCH AREA FOR SIGHTSEEING OR PICNICS. FOR THE PRIVATE ROAD STARTING IN LOT 4888 AND END
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DECK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AT 4880 BOTH OWNERS WILL BE SHARING PRIVATE STREET. MAINTENANCE AND SNOW PLOW WILL BE TAKEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                90.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CARE OF BY OWNER OF LOT 4880 AND LOR 4888                                                            LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SQFT                               PERCENTAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 1 - 4880 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                                              LOT 1 - 2830 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR.
                                                                                                                                                           4                                                                                                                             EXISTING HOME                                                                                          USING ACCEPTABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL PROPERTY AREA                                 71642                                 100%       STRUCTURAL ENGINEER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GM
                                                                                     EXISTING HOME                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ALTERNATIVE TO 120'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL EXISTING BUILDING AREA                         4548                                  6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE                                                       HAMMERHEAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRIVE                                                                                                                                              TOTAL BUILDABLE AREA                                26262                                 37%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R.O.W. AS PER ENTRY # 1692447
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BOOK.1675; PAGE. 60                                                                 TOTAL LANDSCAPED AREA & GREEN SPACE                 36738                                 52%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MOUNTAIN FUEL GAS LINE
                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL ROAD AREA (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE) + DRIVEWAY       8093                                  11%



                                                                                                                                                                   VEGETATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NOTE: ADDITIONAL BUILDABLE AREA AROUND EXISTING HOME IN LOT 1 IS FOR FUTURE IMPROVEMENT OR
                                                                                                                                                                   OUTLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ADDITION TO HOME. THE AREA COVERS CARPORT SHED AND EXTENDED PERIMETER AROUND THE EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            90.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HOME. TOTAL AREA IS 7480 OR 10% OF TOTAL SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          °




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUBDIVISION & PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HINCKLEY ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8' -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             70'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                70' - 0" 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4888 & 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SCOPE OF WORK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRAVEL                                                                                                                                                    PROPOSING TWO NEW SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRIVE                                                                                                                                                     ONE ON LOT 3 AND ONE ON LOT 4. MINIMUM TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                          6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVED AND KEEPING GREEN SPACE FOR SOME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DEPENDS ON THE SIZE OF THE                      COMMON AREA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STREET THIS TREE MAY BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REMOVED OR BE TRIMMED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4' - 0"                                                                                     8                                                                                                      DOWN TO MEET FIRE ACCESS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ____
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REQUIREMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ZONING INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A201         2                                                                                                                   ALL TREES THAT ARE AT THE EDGE




                                                                                                                                                                          10' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ____
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF THE ROAD NEED TO BE TRIMMED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A201                                                                                                                                                                 1. R-1-10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IF THE OVERHEAD CLEARANCE IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2. SETBACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OVER 13’6” AND PROTRUDING INTO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FRONT SETBACK LOT 4888 - 30' FROM CENTER OF RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THE ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 4890 - 20' FROM LINE OF THE RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REAR SETBACK : < 40'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SIDE SETBACK : LOT 4880 & 4890 - 8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2' - 0"                                                                                                                                  LOT 4888 - 10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3. BUILDING HEIGHT - NOT EXCEED 35 FT
                                                                                                                 9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4. DENSITY: LOTS ALLOWED - 7 TOTALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROPOSED 4 TOTALS WITH TWO EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARCEL 5-TITLE REPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A NON-EXCLUSIVE 30 FOOT RIGHT-OF-WAY,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   APPURTENANT TO PARCELS 2, 3 AND 4, FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 3 - 4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)                                                                                                                                                                                                      PURPOSES OF ACCESS, INGRESS AND EGRESS, AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  32' - 1 1/8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DEFINED AND DISCLOSED IN THAT CERTAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GRANT OF RIGHT-OF-WAY RECORDED MARCH 5,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1996 AS ENTRY NO. 6295035 7344 AT PAGE 781 IN
                                                                                                                          41' - 3"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                         132' - 0"                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ____


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RECORDER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SITE PLAN LEGENDS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE/ PRECAST                                  TREE CANOPY
                                                                                                                                         VEGETATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                         OUTLINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UTILITY EASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HARDSCAPE                                          BUILDABLE AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   118' - 2 1/8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MENT, REFE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HARDSCAPE, PORCH AREA                              EXISTING HOME
                                                                                                                                                      10
                                                                 LOT 2
                                                                 PARCEL # 22-11-157-015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17
                                                                 OWNER STEED, SCOTT A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMMON SPACE, SHARING
LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIRE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R TO CIVIL PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ACCESS
                                                                                                                            11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REVISIONS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REMOVE                                             PRIMARY SETBACK                 NO. DESCRIPTION            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 4 - 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AN
                                                                                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16        1
                                               WANDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ____


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          64' - 7 5/8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A201                                                                                                                  COMMON SPACE, GREEN                                ACCESSORY SETBACK

                                              WOODS SUB.                                                                    VEGETATION
                                                                                                                            OUTLINE                                                                                      14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SPACE



                                                                                                                                                                               VEGETATION                                                                                           15                                                                                                                                                                                                               GREEN SPACE, GRASS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LANDSCAPE, VEGETATION
                                                                                                                                                                               OUTLINE

                                                                                                                                                                     13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OWNER AMY L DELLENBACH FAM TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        06/23/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                      REMOVE TREES IN
                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDABLE AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARCEL # 22-11-158-003
                                                                                                                                                 FLORIBUNDA                           150' FROM EAST BOUNDARY LINE OR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUBDIVISION &
                                                                                                                                                   HEIGHTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DELLENBACH, AMY
                                                                                                                                                                                      EDGE OF THE STREET TO
                                                                                                                                                                                      DETERMINE FURTHEST POINT FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDABLE AREA.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Site Plan_Tree


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 4
                                                                                                     LOT 2
                                     CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN                                                                                                                                                                      PARCEL # 22-11-157-007
                                                                                                       PARCEL # 22-11-157-006
                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OWNER VANAUSDAL, CYNTHIA G
                                     1" = 20'-0"                                                     OWNER PEARSON, MATTHEW L & ANGELA M; JT
             7/8/2025 1:41:25 PM
PLOT DATE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AC102T
Preserving Green Area    2




 NOTE: BIG AND HEALTHY MATURE TREES ARE IN THESE AREA
 THIS GREEN SPACE WILL HELP PRESERVE NATURAL HABITATS AND
 CONTRIBUTE TO GOOD AIR QUALITY FOR HOLLADAY CITY.
Smaller trees and bushes, owner can keep or provide new landscape   3   4   8       10


                                                                                                                                          This is a neighbor
                                                                                                                                          tree. Not the tree on
                                                                                                                                          southern lot




                                                                                                     Smaller trees, owner of this lot can try
                                                                                                     to keep as many trees along this edge
                                                                                                     or create cleaner trees line for privacy.

Skinny and tall but very old, may need
to be trimmed down or removed            5   To keep or be trimmed down         1        6   7   9




 NOTE: THIS IS OUR BEST INTENTION AND HOPING TO BE ABLE TO KEEP AS MUCH AS WE CAN. MOST
 OF THE TREE ALONG THE EDGES ARE SMALLER AND EASY TO WORK WITH. THERE ARE COUPLE
 MATURE ONE THAT WILL NEED TO BE TRIM DOWN IF NEEDED. COUPLE OF THEM ARE NOT IN THE
 BEST SHAPE BUT WE WILL SEE WHEN IT'S TIME TO BUILD IF THOSE ARE WORTH SAVING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DKR DESIGN, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3361 W CRAMDEN DR LEHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UTAH 84102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INTERIM REVIEW ONLY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 3


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REC. OF SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BY STANTEC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    # 22-11-105-049 & 050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SITE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4' - 0"                                                                                                        SLEEPY HOLLOW HILLS PUD SUBDIVISION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.5'                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 1 - 2830 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR.                    16,802 SQ FT 0.390 ACRES                         OWNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 2 - 4880 S FLORIBUNDA DR.                       21,856 SQ FT 0.500 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     155.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 3 - 4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)                 19,680 SQ FT 0.451 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                            To keep or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5                            "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ARCHITECT
                                                                                                                                                                            be trimmed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11   5/8                                                                            CARPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 4 - 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)                 13,304 SQ FT 0.305 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                            down                                                                                78' -                                                                                     SHED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL SITE                                          71,642 SQ FT 1.646 ACRES              100%
                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COMMON AREA                                           9455 SQFT                           13%        CIVIL ENGINEER
                                                            18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COMMON AREA WILL BE TAKEN CARE BY OWNER OF THE HOME WHERE THE COMMON AREA IS LOCATED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WOOD                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FOR THE GREEN COMMON IS FOR PRESEVATION OF THE HABITATS. RESIDENTS IN THESE SUBDIVISION CAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EM                                                                                                                                                                                GO TO PORCH AREA FOR SIGHTSEEING OR PICNICS. FOR THE PRIVATE ROAD STARTING IN LOT 4888 AND END
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DECK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AT 4880 BOTH OWNERS WILL BE SHARING PRIVATE STREET. MAINTENANCE AND SNOW PLOW WILL BE TAKEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           90.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CARE OF BY OWNER OF LOT 4880 AND LOR 4888                                                            LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SQFT                               PERCENTAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 1 - 4880 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                                              LOT 1 - 2830 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR.
                                                                                                                                                               4                                                                                                                                    EXISTING HOME                                                                                          USING ACCEPTABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL PROPERTY AREA                                 71642                                 100%       STRUCTURAL ENGINEER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GM
                                                                                     EXISTING HOME                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ALTERNATIVE TO 120'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL EXISTING BUILDING AREA                         4548                                  6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONCRETE                                                       HAMMERHEAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRIVE                                                                                                                                              TOTAL BUILDABLE AREA                                26262                                 37%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R.O.W. AS PER ENTRY # 1692447
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BOOK.1675; PAGE. 60                                                                 TOTAL LANDSCAPED AREA & GREEN SPACE                 36738                                 52%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MOUNTAIN FUEL GAS LINE
                                                                                                                                                                       1                        2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL ROAD AREA (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE) + DRIVEWAY       8093                                  11%


                                                                                                                                                                             PROTECTED
                                                                                                                                                                           VEGETATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NOTE: ADDITIONAL BUILDABLE AREA AROUND EXISTING HOME IN LOT 1 IS FOR FUTURE IMPROVEMENT OR
                                                                                                                                                                           OUTLINE
                                                                                                                                                                               AREA FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADDITION TO HOME. THE AREA COVERS CARPORT SHED AND EXTENDED PERIMETER AROUND THE EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       90.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HOME. TOTAL AREA IS 7480 OR 10% OF TOTAL SITE
                                                                                                                                                                             GREEN SPACE,                                                                                            °




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUBDIVISION & PUD
                                                                                                                                                                             TO KEEP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HINCKLEY ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                             MATURE TREES                                                                                            R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8' -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        70'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70' - 0" 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4888 & 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SCOPE OF WORK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9                                                                                                   GRAVEL                                                                                                                                                    PROPOSING TWO NEW SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRIVE                                                                                                                                                     ONE ON LOT 3 AND ONE ON LOT 4. MINIMUM TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                     6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVED AND KEEPING GREEN SPACE FOR SOME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DEPENDS ON THE SIZE OF THE                      COMMON AREA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STREET THIS TREE MAY BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REMOVED OR BE TRIMMED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4' - 0"                                                                                     8                                                                                                      DOWN TO MEET FIRE ACCESS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ____
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REQUIREMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ZONING INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A201          2                                                                                                                  ALL TREES THAT ARE AT THE EDGE




                                                                                                                                                                                 10' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ____
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF THE ROAD NEED TO BE TRIMMED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A201                                                                                                                                                                1. R-1-10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IF THE OVERHEAD CLEARANCE IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. SETBACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OVER 13’6” AND PROTRUDING INTO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FRONT SETBACK LOT 4888 - 30' FROM CENTER OF RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THE ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 4890 - 20' FROM LINE OF THE RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REAR SETBACK : < 40'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SIDE SETBACK : LOT 4880 & 4890 - 8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2' - 0"                                                                                                                                  LOT 4888 - 10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. BUILDING HEIGHT - NOT EXCEED 35 FT
                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                   9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4. DENSITY: LOTS ALLOWED - 7 TOTALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROPOSED 4 TOTALS WITH TWO EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PARCEL 5-TITLE REPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A NON-EXCLUSIVE 30 FOOT RIGHT-OF-WAY,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              APPURTENANT TO PARCELS 2, 3 AND 4, FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 3 - 4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)                                                                                                                                                                                                      PURPOSES OF ACCESS, INGRESS AND EGRESS, AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             32' - 1 1/8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DEFINED AND DISCLOSED IN THAT CERTAIN
                                                                                                                                                      3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GRANT OF RIGHT-OF-WAY RECORDED MARCH 5,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1996 AS ENTRY NO. 6295035 7344 AT PAGE 781 IN
                                                                                                                           41' - 3"and bushes, owner
                                                                                                                 Smaller trees                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    132' - 0"
                                                                                                                 can keep or provide new
                                                                                                                 landscape
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ____


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RECORDER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SITE PLAN LEGENDS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONCRETE/ PRECAST                                  TREE CANOPY
                                                                                                                                         VEGETATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                         OUTLINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UTILITY EASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HARDSCAPE                                          BUILDABLE AREA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                   5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              118' - 2 1/8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MENT, REFE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HARDSCAPE, PORCH AREA                              EXISTING HOME
                                                                                                                                                          10
                                                                 LOT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To keep or
                                                                 PARCEL # 22-11-157-015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 17
                                                                 OWNER STEED, SCOTT A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         be trimmed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMMON SPACE, SHARING
LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FIRE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R TO CIVIL PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         down                                                                                                                                                                                   ACCESS
                                                                                                                            11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REVISIONS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REMOVE                                             PRIMARY SETBACK                 NO. DESCRIPTION            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 4 - 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16        1
                                               WANDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ____

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7 20' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     64' - 7 5/8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A201                                                                                                                  COMMON SPACE, GREEN                                ACCESSORY SETBACK

                                              WOODS SUB.                                                                    VEGETATION
                                                                                                                            OUTLINE
                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SPACE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To keep or
                                                                                                                        Smaller trees and bushes, owner                                                                                                                                        15                                                                                  be trimmed                                                                                                                   GREEN SPACE, GRASS
                                                                                                                                                                                      VEGETATION
                                                                                                                        can keep or provide new                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LANDSCAPE, VEGETATION
                                                                                                                                                                                      OUTLINE                                                                                                                                                                                      down
                                                                                                                        landscape
                                                                                                                                                                            13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OWNER AMY L DELLENBACH FAM TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   06/23/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                 REMOVE TREES IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                 BUILDABLE AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARCEL # 22-11-158-003
                                                                                                                                                 FLORIBUNDA                                      150' FROM EAST BOUNDARY LINE OR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUBDIVISION &
                                                                                                                                                   HEIGHTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DELLENBACH, AMY
                                                                                                                                                                                                 EDGE OF THE STREET TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                 DETERMINE FURTHEST POINT FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                 BUILDABLE AREA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Smaller trees, owner of this lot can
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    try to keep as many trees along
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Site Plan_Tree


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 4
                                                                                                     LOT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                          this edge or create cleaner trees
                                     CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                 PARCEL # 22-11-157-007
                                                                                                       PARCEL # 22-11-157-006
                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OWNER VANAUSDAL, CYNTHIA G                                                line.
                                     1" = 20'-0"                                                     OWNER PEARSON, MATTHEW L & ANGELA M; JT
             7/8/2025 1:41:25 PM
PLOT DATE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AC102T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R.                                                                                                                                                                                    LEGEND                                                                               DRAWING TITLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
    FOUND 2" ROUND BRASS CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EDGE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O W                                                                                                                                                                     = SECTIONAL CORNER                                           P       = PHONE UTILITY SERVICE                                 RECORD OF SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L
    AT THE INTERSECTION OF WANDER LN.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ASPHALT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OL .)
    & SLEEPY HOLLOW DR. POINT #22111005                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                = STREET MONUMENT                                         FO         = FIBER OPTIC COMM.
    SEC. 11 T.2S;R1E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CLIENT CONTACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         H ET R.O.W                                                                                                                                                                                    = FOUND PROPERTY MARKER                                   EM = ELECTRIC METER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                     REC. OF SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P Y (PRIV                                                                                                                                                                                                 = REPRESENTS PROPERTY LINE                                 TR = EXISTING TRANSFORMER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RENNIE DUANGKAMON
                                                                                                                                                                                         BY DIAMOND LAND SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E         E                                                                                                                                                                                                           = EXISTING FIRE HYDRANT                                    EB        = ELECTRIC BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                                                                                                                      # S2014-06-0304




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MH     = EXISTING WATER MANHOLE                                             = CHAINLINK/WIRE FENCE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SLEEPY HOLLOW ESTATES                                                 WM     = EXISTING WATER METER                                               = WOOD/VINYL FENCE                         4 PARCEL OF LAND LOCATED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ENTRY # 10539429                                                          = EXISTING WATER VALVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WOOD FENCE                                                                                                                                                  WV                                                                          = EXISTING ROCK RETAINING WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    & EDGE OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S      = EXISTING SEWER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        = EXISTING TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WITHIN, SALT LAKE COUNTY,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REC. OF SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UTAH. A PART OF THE N.W. 1/4 SEC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BY STANTEC                                                                                                           GM       = EXISTING GAS METER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S                                                                                                                   # 22-11-105-049 & 050
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Grant of Easement and/or Right-of-Way


                                                                                                                                                               (PRIVET R.O.W.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mountain Fuel Supply Company
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Recorded: December 29, 1954.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Entry No.: 1405659 Book: 1156Page: 27                  EDGE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAIL BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ON CONC. PEDASTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARCEL # 22-11-105-079
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OWNER TATE, STEPHEN F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ROCK RET.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11, T. 2 S., R. 1. E. S.L.B.&M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Entry No.: 1405660 Book,:1156 Page 29                  ASPHALT                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Entry No.: 1405661 Book,:1156 Page 31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WIRE FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARCEL 1: 22-11-157-011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPERTY DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                        GAS            GAS    GAS        GAS           GAS       GAS             GAS   GAS         GAS        GAS                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WITH CONC. POST                                                                                                                                                                                                           OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W                                                                                       N                          Beginning at a point that lies North 44°52'11" East a distance of 1349.03 feet from the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N 87°43'31" E 177.55'                                                                                                                                                                              OLD HISTORIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FOUND 5 8 " REBAR & CAP                   WIRE FENCE                                           (calculated) West One Quarter corner of Section 11, Township 2 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OLD HISTORIC                                                                                                                             SET BY ELEMENT.                                                                                Base and Meridian, said point lies North 05°58'30" West along the monument line a distance of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N 87°45'00" E 100.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONC.                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OH
                                                                                                                                         S 87°45'00" W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WIRE FENCE
                                                                                                                                            130.00'ROD IRON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PAD                              CARPORT                                                                                                                                          297.62 feet, and North 77°45'00" East a distance of 268.97 feet from a Street monument located
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N 87°43'31" E 12.19'                                                                                                                                                        2' DIA.                              2' DIA.                                                 SHED                                                                                                                                           at the intersection of Floribunda Drive & Wander Lane, Thence South 77°45'00" West a distance


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JS
                                                                                                                                                      FENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PINE                                 PINE                                       W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of 112.65 feet, Thence North 05°56'00" West a distance of 159.87 feet, Thence North 87°45'00"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OH


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.5' DIA.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               East a distance of 100.00 feet, Thence North 87°43'31" East a distance of 12.19 feet, Thenc South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      05°56'00" East a distance of 140.27 feet to the point of beginning.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2' DIA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TREE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARCEL 2: 22-11-157-012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WOOD                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Beginning at a point that lies North 44°52'11" East a distance of 1349.03 feet from the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RET. WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DECK                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (calculated) West One Quarter corner of Section 11, Township 2 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Base and Meridian, said point lies North 05°58'30" West along the monument line a distance of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1' DIA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      297.62 feet, and North 77°45'00" East a distance of 268.97 feet from a Street monument located
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TREE                                                                     1' DIA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PINE                                                                               GLASS                                                                                            20           10             0            S          20       40    at the intersection of Floribunda Drive & Wander Lane, Thence North 05°56'00" West a distance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SOLARIUM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of 140.27 feet, Thence North 87°43'31" East a distance of 177.55 feet, Thence South 07°21'00"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      West a distance of 151.81 feet, Thence North 68°40'00" West a distance of 50.00 feet, Thence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ( IN FEET )                   South 87°45'00" West a distance of 38.52 feet, Thence South 77°45'00" West a distance of 59.79
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HOME                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HOME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 inch = 20 ft.                  feet to the point of beginning.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .81'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    " W 140.27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONCRETE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0" W 15 1
                                                                                                                                                                                             CHAIN LINK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARCEL 3: 22-11-157-010
                                                                                                                                                                                                 FENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2' DIA.                                                                                      DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PINE                                                                                                                                                                    R.O.W. AS PER ENTRY # 1692447                                                    Commencing North 41°40' East 1054.4 feet from the Southwest corner of the Northwest 1/4 of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1' DIA.                                                                                                                                          BOOK.1675; PAGE. 60                                                              Section 11, Township 2 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian; Thence North 87°45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TREE                                                                                                                                             MOUNTAIN FUEL GAS LINE                                                           East 202.44 feet to the true point of beginning; Thence North 5°56' West 148.02 feet; Thence




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    " W 159.87




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S 07°21'0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 05°56'00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WOOD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       North 77°45' East 86.22 feet; Thence South 5°56' East 163.52 feet; Thence South 87°45' West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DECK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       85.0 feet to the point of beginning.
                                                                                                                                    PARCEL # 22-11-157-001                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARCEL ID # 22-11-157-017
                                                                                                                              OWNER BUTLER, RONALD G & ANN R; JT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VEGETATION                                                                            (PARCEL 2-TITLE REPORT)                                                                                                                                                                    PARCEL # 22-11-158-016                         PARCEL 4: 22-11-157-004
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WOOD                                                                                                                                                                      OUTLINE                                                                        OWNER HINCKLEY, JEAN F; TR ( JFH TR )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N 05°56'00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FENCING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OWNER HANSEN, CHRISTIAN C; JT                     Commencing North 41°40' East 1054.4 feet from the Southwest corner of the Northwest 1/4 of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PARCEL ID # 22-11-157-016                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADDRESS 4880 S. FLORIBUNDA DR.                                                                                                          2' DIA.                                                                                              Section 11, Township 2 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, Thence North 16.04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (PARCEL 1-TITLE REPORT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Containing 21,856 Sq. Ft. or 0.50 Acres                                                                                              PINE                                                   HANSEN, AMANDA M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3' DIA.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                feet, Thence East 407.48 feet to the true point of beginning, Thence North 5°56' West 150 feet,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OWNER RENNIE, PAUL R & JEAN H; JT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Thence North 68°40' West 50.0 feet, Thence South 87°45' West 38.52 feet, Thence South 77°45'
                                                                          S 05°56'00" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ADDRESS 2830 E. SLEEPY HOLLOW DR.
                                                                             183.07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1' DIA.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    West 37.54 feet, Thence South 5°56' East 163.52 feet, Thence North 87°45' East 120.0 feet to the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Containing 16,802 Sq. Ft. or 0.39 Acres                                                                                                                                 TREE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       point of beginning.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EDGE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VARIOUS VEGETATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARCEL 5-(Title Report)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A non-exclusive right-of-way, appurtenant to Parcels 2, 3 and 4, for purposes of access, ingress
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3' DIA.                                                                            GRAVEL                                                                                                                                                               and egress, as defined and disclosed in that certain Grant of Right-of-Way recorded March 5,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2' DIA.                                                                                                                                                                       TREE                                                                                DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                APPLE TREE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1996 as Entry No. 6295035 7344 at Page 781 in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P.O.B. PARCEL ID #                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S 87°45'00" W 38.52'
 S 05°57'10" E 530.10'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1' CONCRETE                                            22-11-157-017                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRIVE
MEAS. MON. TO MON.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DITCH                                           (PARCEL 2-TITLE                                                                                                                     N6                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SURVEYOR'S NARRATIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9.79'                                                                                              8°4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "W 5                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REPORT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ° 4 5 '0 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               " W 37.54                                                                                           0'00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "W                                                                                                                                                                                   This Survey was performed at the request of Craig Provost For the purpose to establish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S 7 7                45'0 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S 77°                                                                                                                          50.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONCRETE                                                                       2' DIA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RET WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0  0'                                                                                                                                                            the south boundary of this lot and located the major improvements in relation to the intended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3' DIA.                                                                                                                                                                                                 positioning of this lot.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P.O.B. PARCEL ID # 22-11-157-016                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PINE                                                                                                                                                                                                          The basis of bearing was derived from the street found monumentation accepted as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     original subdivision staking, and utilized on this survey as "East" as shown on this NorthCrest
                                                           WANDER LANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (PARCEL 1-TITLE REPORT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RAIL ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ACCEPTED AT BOUNDS OF WANDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           " W 112.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TIE RET.                                                                               Subdivision plat as recorded within the official records of Salt Lake County Recorders' Office.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WOODS SUBDIVISION                °45'00
                                                                                                                                                                                             OLD HISTORIC                                                                        S 77                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Area surveys as recorded within the records of the Salt Lake County Surveyor's Office
                                                                                                                                                                                              WIRE FENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1' CONCRETE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       have been pulled and examined during the coarse of this survey. No Survey discrepancies were
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N 77°45'00" E 85.75' (REC. 86.22')                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0'01" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DITCH                                                                   GRAVEL                                                                                                                                  S 78°1 8'                         found, that relate to this lots location.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRIVE                                                                                                                                      156.2
                                                                                                                                         DEED REF. TIE                                                                                                               DRAINAGE
                                                                                                                                    N 77°45'00" E 268.97'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TERMINATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2' DIA.                                                                                                                                                      Grant of Easement In favor of: Dry Creek Irrigation Company Recorded: October                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TREE                                                                                                                                                         20, 1960Entry No.: 1742519 Book: 1751 Page: 129, of the Official Records.                                                                                                                                                                               1. Surveyor has made no investigation or independent search for easements of record
                                                                                                              FOUND REBAR & CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Grant of Easement or Right-of-Way and the terms, conditions and limitations                                                                                                                           PARCEL 5-TITLE REPORT                             encumbrances restrictive covenants ownership title evidence, or any other facts, conflicts, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             contained therein: In favor of: Sixth Avenue Enterprises, Inc.Recorded: March 23,                                                                                                                    A NON-EXCLUSIVE 30 FOOT RIGHT-OF-WAY,
                                                                                                                SET BY NORTHERN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      discrepancies which may be disclosed by the details of a currant title insurance policy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARCEL ID # 22-11-157-010                                                                                                                    1973 Entry No.: 2527246 Book: 3285 Page: 440, of the Official Record. "evidence                                                                                                                      APPURTENANT TO PARCELS 2, 3 AND 4, FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of irrigation systems resides on property possibly abandoned."                                                                                  S 78°10'01" W                                        PURPOSES OF ACCESS, INGRESS AND EGRESS, AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARCEL 3-TITLE REPORT                                                                                                                                                                                                                2' DIA.                                                 30.16'                                                                                                  2. See city and county planning, and zoning maps for information regarding setback, side yard,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEFINED AND DISCLOSED IN THAT CERTAIN GRANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OWNER HINCKLEY, JEAN F; TR ( JFH TR )                                                                                                                                                                                                       PINE                                                                                                        OF RIGHT-OF-WAY RECORDED MARCH 5, 1996 AS          and rear yard instances as well as other building, use restrictions, and requirements.
                                                                                                                                                                       DEED REF. TIE                                                                                                                                                        ADDRESS 4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ENTRY NO. 6295035 7344 AT PAGE 781 IN THE
                                                                                                                                                                       S 77°45'00" W 156.33'                                                                                                                                                Containing 13264.69 Sq. Ft. 0.30 Acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER.           3. Utility pipes, wires etc. may not be shown on this map, contractors builders and excavators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1' DIA.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             shall verify the location of all existing utilities prior to construction, and/or excavation. Contact




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          163.52')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TREE                                                                                                              DEED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RECORD                                                                                                                        2' DIA.                                                                                                                                             blue stakes and refer to utility maps for additional information.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMPOSITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARCEL ID # 22-11-157-004                                                     PINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARCEL 4-TITLE REPORT                                                                                                                                                                                                            4. The location of each easement, rights of way, and other plotable information affecting the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              . 148.02')




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .65' (REC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OWNER HINCKLEY, JEAN F; TR ( JFH TRST )                                                                                                                                                                                                  subject property as shown, has been relied upon as listed in the title insurance commitment




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                " W 149.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VEGETATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OUTLINE                                                                                                                                 ADDRESS 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR.                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dated February 11, 2025 issued by Cottonwood Title Insurance Company, issued File #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .8' DIA.                                                       4' DIA.                                                                                           Containing 19,777.53 Sq. FT. 0.45 ACRES                                                                                                                            2' DIA.                                                             187165-RCF, with respect to the subject property. Labeled with appropriate recording
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TREE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARCEL# 22-11-158-017                 references, to the extent that such matters can be located. The property shown on the survey is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ' (REC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TREE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       " E 162
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OWNER DELLENBACH, AMY L; TR              the property described in that title commitment. All information of record has been solely relied




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N 05°56'08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2' DIA.                                                          CULVERT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Upon as shown in said Title commitment.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (ALD FAM TRUST)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           " W 147.80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.5' DIA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N 05°56'00" W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 05°56'00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (MEAS.) 123.24' (REC.) 124.15'                                                                         SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARCEL # 22-11-157-015                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I, R. Shane Johanson, do hereby certify that I am a Professional Land Surveyor, holding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OWNER STEED, SCOTT A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       certificate No. 7075114 as prescribed under the laws of the State of Utah. I further certify that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N 05°58'00




                                                                                                                                               LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2' DIA.                                                                                                                                                          by the owners' authority, I have made a survey of the tract of land shown on this plat and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TREE                                                                                                                                                             described hereon. The same has been correctly surveyed and referenced with ground
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 05°56'00" E                                                                                                measurements and other data as shown on this plat. This survey retraces lot/deed lines and may
                                                                              DEED REF. TIE                                                                                                                                                                                            3' DIA.                                                                                                                                        3' DIA.                                                                                                                                                                                           (MEAS.) 118.25' (REC.) 119.12'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     have corrected said lot/deed lines to coincide with found evidence and other interpolations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PINE GROUP                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1' CONCRETE
                                                                              N 05°58'30" W 297.62'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PINE GROUP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DITCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                   conclusions, based on said ground measurements, data surveys and other information and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NON CONCRETE                     3' DIA.                                                                        GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DITCH                                                                                                   DRIVE                                                               records. Furthermore, other unwritten rights of ownership or lines of occupation may have
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                             WANDER WOODS SUB.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       implied rights or may exist, and in conducting this survey and preparing this plat it is expressly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2' DIA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VEGETATION                                                                                                                     TREE                                                 SHED WITH                                                                                                                                                                                                       understood that I do not warrant or certify any of those rights unless evidence and records of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OUTLINE                                                                                                                                                                           OVER HANG                                                .8' DIA.                                                                                                                                               agreements or acts among the appropriate parties are provided to me sufficient to establish the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TREE                                                                                                                                                  existence and position of those lines.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1' CPVC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VEGETATION                                                                                                 2' DIA.                                                                                                                          CULVERT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2' DIA.                                                                                                                   TREE                                                                                      N 87°40'14" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OUTLINE                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TREE                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30.06'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JOHANSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2' DIA.                                                                                          2' DIA.                                                                                                                SPILLWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TREE                                                                                             TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P.O.B. PARCEL ID # 22-11-157-010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SURVEY DESIGN SEPTIC PLANNING


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARCEL 3-TITLE REPORT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1' DIA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ACCEPTED AT INTERSECT OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WANDER WOODS AND FLORIBUNA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HEIGHTS SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 87°42'30" E 120.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (REC. N 87°45'00" 120.0')




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S 87°42'30" W 85.32'
                                                                                                                                                                  DEED REF TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (REC. 87°45'00" 86.00')                                                                N 87°42'30" E 598.00'
                                                                                                                                                             N 87°45'00" E 202.44'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P.O. BOX 18941
                                            .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2' DIA.
                                    N.T.S TIE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .8' DIA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84118




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TREE                                                              TREE
                                          EF
                                     DR           .35'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMPOSITE                                                                              1' DIA.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Shane Johanson P.L.S. 801-815-2541
                                 DEE          1056 4.40')




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N 00°00'00" E
                                       7 " E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FENCE                                                                                  TREE
                                  °44'5          105                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2' DIA.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                42.15'
                              N 41 1°40'00" E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TREE                                                                                                                                                                                    COPYRIGHT
                                .N4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FLORIBUNDA DR
                            (REC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          This drawing is and at all times remains the exclusive property of Johanson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P.O.B. PARCEL ID # 22-11-157-004                                                                                                                                                               Surveying shall not be used with out complete authorization and written support.
                                                                                                 4'




                                                                                                        FOUND 2.5" FLAT BRASS CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARCEL 4-TITLE REPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 4
                                                                                      " W 1015.4
                                                                                       BEARING




                                                                                                        AT THE INTERSECTION OF WANDER LN.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ACCEPTED AT BOUNDS OF                                                                                                                                                                                   STAMP                                    PROJECT NO.
                                                                                             .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARCEL # 22-11-158-003
                                                                                         MON




                                  1                                                                     & FLORIBUNDA DR. POINT #22111004                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FLORIBUNA HEIGHTS SUBDIVISION
                                W. 4 COR. SEC. 11,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OWNER AMY L DELLENBACH FAM TR                                                                                S-25-014
                               T.2 S.;R.1E. S.L.B.&M                                                    SEC. 11 T.2S;R1E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DELLENBACH, AMY
                               (NOT FOUND)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARCEL # 22-11-157-007                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DATE:
                                                                              MON. TO
    N 00°08'32" W 407.11'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PARCEL # 22-11-157-006                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3-25-2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OWNER VANAUSDAL, CYNTHIA G
                                                                           BASIS OF
                                                                           N 05°58'30
        CALCULATED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OWNER PEARSON, MATTHEW L & ANGELA M; JT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAWN BY:      SHANE R. JOHANSON P.L.S.
                                      FOUND 2.5" FLAT BRASS CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OVERSEEN BY:         SHANE R. JOHANSON P.L.S.
                                      WITNESS CORNER TO THE W. 1 4 COR.                               FOUND 2.5" FLAT BRASS CAP
                                      SEC. 11 T.2 S.;R.1E. PT.#2S1E106A                               AT THE INTERSECTION OF CASTO LN.
                                                                                                      & WANDER LN. POINT # 22113001                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NUMBER
                                      S 89°59'39" E 824.96'
                                                                                                      SEC. 11 T.2S;R1E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FLORIBUNDA HEIGHTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET-1
                                      (89°56' 824.95 A.R.P.)
                                                                                                                 7.01'
                                                                                                                 8'30" E 13
                           1                                                                 2                                                       3                                                                   4                                                                                                     5                                                                                               6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VERIFY SCALE

                                                                                                                         COVER SHHET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BAR IS ONE INCH ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ORIGINAL DRAWING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N                       LOCATION MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                           VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0                                 1"
                                                                                                          HINCKLEYS ESTATES SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOT TO SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IF NOT ONE INCH ON
               UTILITY INFORMATION                                                                                   4880 SOUTH FLORIBUNDA                                                                                   NOT TO SCALE                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THIS SHEET, ADJUST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCALES ACCORDINGLY
           COMPANY                                   CONTACT                  TELEPHONE
                                                                                                                    DRIVE HOLLADAY, CITY UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                               84            15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    84            15

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CACHE               RICH
          PACIFICCORP                                                         801-220-2238                                                                                                                                                  CACHE               RICH                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HUA, XY
                                                                                                                                                                                            BOX ELDER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   APVD APPROVED
                                                                                                                                                                                              BOX ELDER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHECKED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WEBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    80
          PUBLIC WORKS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WEBERMORGAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          84 MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DAVIS             84
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DAVIS                                                            DAGGETT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SUMMIT


                                                                                                                          DETAILS CALLOUTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DAGGETT
             GAS                                                                                                                                                                       80                 PROJECT                               80               SUMMIT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                            80                                                    80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SALT LAKE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BY
                                                                                                                                                                                         TOOELE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                           TOOELE                                                             WASATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WASATCH


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UTAH                        DUCHESNE         UINTAH
                                                                                                          PAVEMENT SECTION                       TYPICAL TRENCH SECTION                                                                                UTAH                        DUCHESNE        UINTAH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CITY REVIEW COMMENTS
                                                                                                   A                                     10
                                                                                                 C-700                                  C-703


                                                                                                                                                                                                  JUAB
                                                                                                                                                                                                    JUAB                               15                                        CARBON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15                                       CARBON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REVISIONS
                                                                                                          CURB & GUTTER                          FIRE HYDRANT

                            BENCHMARK
                                                                                                   B                                     14
                                                                                                 C-700                                  C-703


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SANPETE                                                       70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SANPETE                                                     70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPERTY LOCATION
                               SEE LAND SURVEY COMPLETED BY                                               CONCRETE FLAT WORK             5A      DRIVE APPROACH                             MILLARD                                                                             EMERY
                                                                                                   C                                    C-703                                                 MILLARD                                          70                                EMERY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70                                               GRAND
                                    JOHANSON SURVEYING                                           C-700                                                                                                                                                                                            GRAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEVIER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEVIER
                                  FOUND SANITARY SEWER MH
                               ELEVATION = 4520.23 TOP OF RING                                                                           7A      LINDON GUTTER INLET
                                                                                                          INLET DETAIL                  C-703
                                        SEE SITE PLAN
                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                 C-700                                                                                      BEAVER
                                                                                                                                                                                              BEAVER                         PIUTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PIUTE                                   WAYNE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WAYNE


                         HOLLADAY, UT SURVEY DATA REQUIREMENTS                                                                           7C      STORM WATER TREATMENT                                     15 15
                                                                                                                                        C-703
                                                                                                          SS CLEANOUT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                        IRON
                          COORDINATE UNITS: INTERNATIONAL FEET                                     E
                                                                                                 C-700
                                                                                                                                                                                           IRON                                                GARFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GARFIELD


                            DISTANCE UNITS: INTERNATIONAL FEET
                                                                                                                                          11     MANHOLE DETAIL                                                                                                                               SAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SANJUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JUAN
                                                                                                                                         C-704




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2150 SOUTH 1300 EAST SUITE 500
                                           DATUM                                                   F      FIRE HYDRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B
                                                                                                 C-700                                                                            WASHINGTON
                                                                                                                                                                                    WASHINGTON                                     KANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KANE
                            GEODETIC (HORIZONTAL) DATUM:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JOHANSON ENGINEERING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84106
                   NORTH AMERICAN DATUM OF 1983 (1992), (NAD83 (1992))                                                                    15     THRUST BLOCKS
                                                                                                                                         C-704




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CIVIL ENGINEER
                                    ZONE: CENTRAL (0202)                                           125    EQUIMPENT VEHICLE WASH DOWN
                                                                                                  C-702
                                    VERTICAL DATUM                                                                                               2'' CULINARY MASTER METER
                                                                                                                                          16B
               NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988C (NAVD88) EL=4520.23                                                                C-704


                                                                                                   124    INLET PROTECTION
                                                                                                  C-702
                                 PROJECT COORDINATE SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                          17     TYPICAL SEWER LATERAL
                                                                                                                                         C-704


                                   NORTHING = 7,292,953.26                                         126    SILT FENCE
                                                                                                  C-702




                                   EASTING = 1,569,731.24
                                                                                                          STABILIZED ROADWAY ENTRANCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GENERAL NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.    INSTALL IMPROVEMENTS TO HOLLADAY, STANDARDS. CONTRACTOR TO OBTAIN AND FOLLOW
                                                                                                   126
                                                                                                  C-702




                                      NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HOLLADAY SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.    MAINTAIN A MINIMAL 10' DISTANCE BETWEEN WATER AND SEWER LINES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.    MINIMAL 18" OF CLEARANCE IS REQUIRED WHERE SEWER AND WATER CROSS.
    CONTRACTOR IS TO USE EXTREME CAUTION WHEN WORKING NEAR HIGH VOLTAGE OVERHEAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.    MINIMAL 12" OF CLEARANCE IS REQUIRED WHERE CROSSING EXISTING GAS LINE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4580 SOUTH 2300 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HOLLADAY, UT 84117
                        POWER LINES AND HIGH PRESSURE GAS MAINS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.    CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY LOCATIONS AND INVERT ELEVATIONS OF EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        801-272-9450
        CONTRACTOR TO LOCATE AND DELINEATE TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION EASEMENTS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MANHOLES AND OTHER UTILITIES BEFORE STAKING OR CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW UTILITY LINES.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JURISDICTION
  NO PORTION OF THIS PROJECT IS LOCATED WITHIN A FEMA DESIGNATED 100-YEAR FLOOD PLAIN PER                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.    MINIMUM OF FOUR FEET OF COVER REQUIRED OVER ALL WATER LINES.
                              EFFECTIVE FEMA MAPS 49049C0307F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.    CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBLE FOR OBTAINING HOLLADAY STANDARDS AND APWA 2017
                                      DATED: 6/19/2020                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SPECIFICATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
ALL EASEMENTS CALLED OUT IN THESE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS SHALL BE DIDICATED BY A RECORDED                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.    CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITY TO OBTAIN AND FOLLOW THE SOILS REPORT AND ITS
  LEGAL DESCRIPTION UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED AS "EXISTING WITH BOOK AND PAGE LOCATION OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RECOMMENDATIONS.
                                       RECORDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9.    CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY TO VERIFY CIVIL SITE PLAN AND BUILDING DIMENSIONS MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BUILDING PLANS BEFORE STARTING CONSTRUCTION.
REFER TO THE FOLLOWING STANDARD DETAILS FOR PROJECT NOTES WHICH ARE AVAILABLE FROM LINDON
                                            WEBSITE:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10.   ALL SANITARY SEWER CONSTRUCTION SHALL COMPLY WITH HOLLADAY PUBLIC WORKS                                                                                                                                               C
                          https://lindon.gov/development-manual.htm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DISTRICT STANDARDS AND CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11.   ALL UTILITY LINES SHALL BE BACKFILLED WITH SELECT GRANULAR FILL AS HOLLADAY OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       APWA 2017 STANDARDS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12.   ALL STORM DRAIN PIPING TO BE CUT OFF FLUSH WITH INSIDE WALL OF DRAINAGE BOX. INSIDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WALL TO BE GROUTED SMOOTH WITH A NON-SHRINK GROUT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13.   CONTRACTOR TO REPLACE ANY AREAS AROUND CONSTRUCTION SITE THAT IS DAMAGED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HINCKLEY ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DURING CONSTRUCTION.
                                        CLIENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14.   THERE SHALL BE NO CHANGES TO THESE PLANS WITHOUT THE WRITTEN APPROVAL OF THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4888 & 4890 FLORUBUNDA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENGINEER OF RECORD AND RE-SUBMITTAL OF THE PROPOSED CHANGES TO HOLLADAY FOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HOLLADAY, UTAH 84117
                                         D. RENNIE
                               4888 & 4890 FLOURBUNDA DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
                                       HOLLADAY UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15.   REVIEW AND INCORPORATE THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DESCRIPTION
                                      PH1-702-592-7799                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           16.   LOCATION (HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL) OF UNDERGROUND UTILITIES SHALL BE UNCOVERED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BY THE CONTRACTOR AT THE BEGINNING OF THE PROJECT TO SEE IF THEY IMPACT THE DESIGN.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRIVE
                                    ARCHITECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17.   THE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR SAFETY ON THE SITE AT ALL TIMES AND SHALL OBTAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THE NECESSARY PERMITS TO ACCOMPLISH THE JOB.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 18.   CALL BLUE STAKE BEFORE YOU DIG.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 19.   THE LOCAL AUTHORITY RULES, REGULATION AND SPECIFICATION GOVERN. SEE HOLLADAY CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                   HOLLADAY CITY NOTES                                                                                           20.   CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITY FOR SAFETY ON JOB SITE AT ALL TIMES

                                                                                                                                                                             1.      The applicant is responsible for compliance with all requirements of the
                                     SURVEYOR                                                                                                                                2.
                                                                                                                                                                                     “Americans with Disabilities Act” (ADA).
                                                                                                                                                                                     All landscaped areas shall have an automatic, underground sprinkling
                                   SHANE JOHANSON                                                                                                                                    system with a backflow prevention device and a backflow prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                     device to the building, unless landscaping is served by the secondary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CAUTION NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR
                                  P.O.    BOX 18941
                              SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84118                                                                                                                             water system.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A.   The contractor is specifically cautioned that the location and/or elevation
                                                                                                                                                                             3.      Water meters are to be located behind back of walk or back of curb in an




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONCEPTUAL CIVIL NOT
                           Shane Johanson P.L.S. 801-815-2541




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NO.02786-OSP-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FOR CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of existing utilities as shown on these plans are based on records of the
                                                                                                                                                                                     area that isaccessible, not located behind fenced areas or under covered




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STAMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            various utility companies and, where possible, measurements taken in the
                                                                                                                                                                                     parking.                                                                                                                                               field. The information is not to be relied on as being exact or complete. The                                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                                                                                             4.      Lindon Standard Specifications and Drawings apply to construction of                                                                                   contractor must call the appropriate utility company at least 48 hours
                                  SUBMITTED BY                                                                                                                                       public improvements that will be owned or maintained by Lindon City
                                                                                                                                                                                     and take precedence over other standards.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            before any excavation to request exact field location for utilities. It shall be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            the responsibility of the contractor to relocate all existing utilities which
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            conflict with the proposed improvements shown on the plans.
                     CAREY JOHANSON P.E.                                 4/28/25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DATE
                       CIVIL ENGINEER                                     DATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         B.   The contractor agrees that he shall assume sole and complete responsibility                                                   5-3-25
                                                                        5563750                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             for job site conditions during the course of construction of this project,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JOHANSON PROJECT #
                                                                 UTAH REGISTRATION N0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      including safety of all persons and property: that this requirement shall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            apply continuously and not be limited to normal working hours: the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E-25-8
                                                                      DR. HUA XU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            contractor shall defend, indemnify and hold the owner and the engineer                                               FOR PERMIT REVIEW
                                                             HYDROLOGY & DRAINAGE REPORT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    harmless from any and all liability real or alleged, In connection with                                                    ONLY
                                                                SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        performance of work on this project.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C-01
                 1                                                                                                                                                                                        2                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3                                                                                                                                                                                          4                                                                                                                                                                                        5                                                                                                                     6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S 21°09'28" W 46.37' VERIFY SCALE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OVERALL SITE GRADING PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BAR IS ONE INCH ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ORIGINAL DRAWING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     )                                                                                                                                            HINCKLEYS ESTATES SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0                               1"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IF NOT ONE INCH ON
                                                                                                                                      REC. OF SURVEY
                                                                                                                          BY DIAMOND LAND SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                       # S2014-06-0304
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R  IVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4880 SOUTH FLORIBUNDA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THIS SHEET, ADJUST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCALES ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRIVE HOLLADAY, CITY UTAH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 12°22'04" W 40.56'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SLEEPY HOLLOW ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ENTRY # 10539429




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L                                                                                                                                                                                         MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S                          CO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                                                          W-L                W-L                W-L                        W-L           W-L             W-L                                                                                                                                                                                  GA
                                                     W-L            W-L                      W-L           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HUA, XY
      W-L             W-L             W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  APVD APPROVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L  O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REC. OF SURVEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHECKED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GA                          MM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               YH   O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BY STANTEC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SLEEP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           o.w.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AS                                                                                                                                                    # 22-11-105-049 & 050

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20                                0     5        10                 20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e
        PWR             PWR



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t
                                        PWR            PWR            PWR                      PWR           PWR                PWR                PWR                PWR                        PWR           PWR             PWR



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARCEL # 22-11-105-079
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (pri v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PWR                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COM
                                                                                                                   Grant of Easement and/or Right-of-Way Mountain
                                                                                                                                              Fuel Supply Company
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M                                                                                                                                                                           OWNER TATE, STEPHEN F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S 08°07'53" W 22.64'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CJ
                                                                                                                                      Recorded: December 29, 1954.                                                                                                                                                 GAS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1 in. = 20 FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS                       COMM
                                                                                                                             Entry No.: 1405659 Book: 1156Page: 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N 87°43'31" E 12.19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS                         COMM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N 87°43'31" E 189.74'
                                                                                                                             Entry No.: 1405660 Book,:1156 Page 29                                                                          GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS                            COMM
                                                                                                                             Entry No.:
                                                                                                                                     GAS1405661 Book,:1156 Page GAS
                                                                                                                                                                31                                               GAS                      COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N 87°45'00" E
GAS             GAS             GAS            GAS            GAS                      GAS           GAS              GAS                          GAS                                                                   COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N 87°43'31" E 177.55'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                         COMM           COMM
                                                                                                                                      COMM               COMM
                                                                                                                   COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         591.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FOUND 5 8 " REBAR & CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SET BY ELEMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 87°45'00" E 100.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OH
                                               S 87°45'00" W
                                                  130.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LEGEND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CITY REVIEW COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OH




                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S 05°33'44" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        70.69'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROPERTY LINE                                               EXISTING CONTOURS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROPERTY CORNER                                             PROPOSED CONTOURS




                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P.U.E. LINE/EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4500       FINISH TOP OF SURFACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FIRE HYDRANT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING POWER POLE                                         LANDSCAPING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3 ASPHALT PAVEMENT                                      S   EXISTING SEWER MANHOLE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED INLET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .81'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .277''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W        EXISTING WATERLINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E 114400.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0" W 151
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LIGHT POLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS      GAS         EXISTING GAS LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OHW            OVERHEAD POWER LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S 05°56'00"
                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                            " W 159.87




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S 07°21'0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                      PARCEL # 22-11-157-001




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R.O.W. AS PER ENTRY #1692447
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BOOK.1675; PAGE.60
                                OWNER BUTLER, RONALD G & ANN R; JT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2150 SOUTH 1300 EAST SUITE 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ADDRESS 4880 S. FLORIBUNDA DR.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IN FAVOR OF MOUNTAIN FUEL
                                                                                                                                                                  N 05°56'00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Containing 21,856 Sq. Ft. or 0.50 Acres                                                        90.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JOHANSON ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           °




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S 02°43'53" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CIVIL ENGINEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8' -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              84.72'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                70' - 0" 7                                                            WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ADDRESS 2830 E. SLEEPY HOLLOW DR.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Containing 16,802 Sq. Ft. or 0.39 Acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARCEL # 22-11-158-016




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GRAVEL                                                                                                                                                    19.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OWNER HANSEN, CHRISTIAN C; JT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HANSEN, AMANDA M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '                    4' 87°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N    0" 45'0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -87°     0" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 45'00" E 38.52'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "W                       59.79   >                                                                                                                            8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S 77      °45'00                                                                                                                     S6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8°4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   >                                                                                                                3         0'00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >                                                                                                                                                 ____

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A201            2 5500..00                                                                                            NO CROSSING AT HANSEN PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >                                                                                                                                                                                                 ____
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             00''                                                                                        CIVIL PLAN IS TO BE UPDATED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A201




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ACCORDINNG TO CONCEPT DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "W                          112.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45'00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S 77°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0'01" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9.13   '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2' - 0"                                                                                                          S 78°1 8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "W 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4580 SOUTH 2300 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15 .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45'00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HOLLADAY, UT 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W



                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S 77°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       801-272-9450
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                >                    W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JURISDICTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EASEMENT ABANDONED & TO BE VACATED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Grant of Easement In favor of: Dry Creek Irrigation Company Recorded: October
                                                                                                                                                                                                                P.O.B.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20, 1960Entry No.: 1742519 Book: 1751 Page: 129, of the Official Records.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          " E 84.26'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Grant of Easement or Right-of-Way and the terms, conditions and limitations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                SUB. PLAT
                                                               TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                        REF.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      contained therein: In favor of: Sixth Avenue Enterprises, Inc.Recorded: March 23,

                                                      .               3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1973 Entry No.: 2527246 Book: 3285 Page: 440, of the Official Record. "evidence

                                                                156.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NEW)
                                                S U B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of irrigation systems resides on property possibly abandoned."                                                                                                                                                   32' - 1 1/8"
                                                         0 " E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 " W 83.01'




                                                    45'0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >
                                              N 77°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ADDRESS 4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A NON-EXCLUSIVE 30 FOOT RIGHT-OF-WAY,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S 05°56'08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Containing 19,680 Sq. Ft. 0.451 Acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                          APPURTENANT TO PARCELS 2, 3 AND 4, FOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4                                                                                                                           PURPOSES OF ACCESS, INGRESS AND EGRESS, AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ____
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DEFINED AND DISCLOSED IN THAT CERTAIN GRANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N 05°59'28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OF RIGHT-OF-WAY RECORDED MARCH 5, 1996 AS
                                                                          CENTERLINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ENTRY NO. 6295035 7344 AT PAGE 781 IN THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER.
                              10'                                                                                10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 " E 149.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      >




                              2% SLOPE                                                                     2% SLOPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UTILITY EASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                " W 147.80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      >
            SUB. REF. TIE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 05°56'08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
            N 05°58'30" W 284.95'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HINCKLEY ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD




                      3.0" ASPHALT SURFACING AS PER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             >

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10' - 0"
                      SOILS REPORT RECOMENDATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               >                               >                   >                              >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MENT, REFE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >                                 >            >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N 05°58'00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             >                              >
                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4888 & 4890 FLORUBUNDA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
             6" ROAD BASE UNDER ASPHALT AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E 205.77'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  42'30"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              87°42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N 87°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W

                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARCEL # 22-11-157-015                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HOLLADAY, UTAH 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WM
             CURB & GUTTER COMPACTED TO 96% MODIFIED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W



             PROCTOR DENSITY                                                                                                                                                                       OWNER STEED, SCOTT A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R TO CIVIL PL
                                                      LOT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                              Note:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PARCEL# 22-11-158-017




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PUD
                                                              All sewer, water and storm drain




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  " E 64.79'
                                                              locations are approximate. Refer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OWNER DELLENBACH, AMY L; TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)
                                                              to plan for locations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (ALD FAM TRUST)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                    PRIVATE DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               " W 64.79'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L
                                                                                                                                       WANDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ____


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 4                                                                                                                               20' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           64' - 7 5/8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A201




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 05°56'08
                                    Section A-A (NTS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADDRESS 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                                                                                                      WOODS SUB.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Containing 13,304 Sq. FT. 0.305 ACRES

                 Typical road way sections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N 05°56'08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD>                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD >                                             > SD                                                         >                                                                                                                            WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SD                                            >SD                                     >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              >                                                         >                         >                                >                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8' - 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1'' WATER METER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS                 GAS                GAS         GAS        GAS    GAS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROPOSED CLEAN-OUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 87°42'30" W 205.77'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FINISH GRADE:4517.12+/-                                                                                              WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROPOSED CLEAN-OUT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FINISH GRADE:4506.87+/-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONCEPTUAL CIVIL NOT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NO.02786-OSP-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FOR CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FLORIBUNDA DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STAMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >               >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (public street)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3' SWALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.5'                             0.5                              0.5' DEPTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5-3-25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JOHANSON PROJECT #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E-25-8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FOR PERMIT REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         28'
                                                                                                      15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - 0"
                                                                        1                                                                                                                            2                                                                                                            3                                                                                                                                                  4                                                                                                                   5                                                                                                          6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    70' - 0" 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ____
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VERIFY SCALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BAR IS ONE INCH ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ORIGINAL DRAWING.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PLAN AND PROFILE

                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0                               1"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IF NOT ONE INCH ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HINCKLEYS ESTATES SUBDIVISION                                                                                                            THIS SHEET, ADJUST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     000''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ____




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                500..0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SCALES ACCORDINGLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A201



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4880 SOUTH FLORIBUNDA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             32' - 1 1/8"
                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0'00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRIVE HOLLADAY, CITY UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8°4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HUA, XY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       APVD APPROVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      60'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHECKED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OH
                                                                                                                                                                               17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ____
                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS


                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A201




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R28.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS




                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROPOSED                                                                                                                                    S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                               UTILITY EAS                                                                                                  GAS
                                                                                                               SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                                                                                                                           EMENT, REF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L
                                                                                                                                   20' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                       ER TO CIVIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                PLAN
                                                                                  SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS                                                                                                                                                 W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CITY REVIEW COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            84.26'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                05°56'08" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           " E 149.05                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS



                                                                                                                                                                                                               S 05°56'08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OH
                                                                                                                                                                         GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
   PROPOSED CLEAN-OUT
                                                                                                                                                                   GAS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S 07°21'0
                                                                                                                                              16

                                                                                                                                                      GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REVISIONS
  FINISH GRADE:4517.12+/-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0" W 151
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA
                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .81'
                                                                                                                                  GAS
                                                                                                                         GAS

                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                    8" E 64.79
                                                                                                    GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L
                                                                                                                           S 05°56'0
                                                                                                                                                                                   WM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OH
                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                  GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10                    0       5         10                    20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
      GAS                GAS           GAS
                                                                                                                    SS




                                                GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R28.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                   GAS




                                                                                                                                         ____




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 in. = 10 FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                   A201




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NO CROSSING AT HANSEN PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                          SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GA
                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CIVIL PLAN IS TO BE UPDATED                                                                                                                                GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                                                                                               20.0'
                                                                                                                                                                               W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ACCORDINNG TO CONCEPT DESIGN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEGEND
                                                                GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GA
                                                                                                                                                            W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                        W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPERTY LINE                                        EXISTING CONTOURS
                                                             GAS




                                                                                                           W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S                                                                   PROPERTY CORNER                                       PROPOSED CONTOURS
                                                                                        W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2150 SOUTH 1300 EAST SUITE 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P.U.E. LINE/EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S                                                                                               4500          FINISH TOP OF SURFACE                                                                                                                  B
                                                            GAS




                                                W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FIRE HYDRANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JOHANSON ENGINEERING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84106
            W-L
                                                                                        SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING POWER POLE                                   LANDSCAPING
                                                                            W-L
                                                          GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CIVIL ENGINEER
                  COMM          COMM
                               W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R28.0'                                                                                                    60.1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3 ASPHALT PAVEMENT                                    EXISTING SEWER MANHOLE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROPOSED INLET
                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W        EXISTING WATERLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIGHT POLE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20.1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS     GAS          EXISTING GAS LINE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OHW
                                                      GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OVERHEAD POWER LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                19.9'
                                                 GASGAS




11-158-003
                                                GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0'01" W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4580 SOUTH 2300 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S 78°1 8'
ENBACH FAM TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HOLLADAY, UT 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          156.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            801-272-9450
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JURISDICTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HINCKLEY ESTATES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4888 & 4890 FLORUBUNDA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HOLLADAY, UTAH 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONCEPTUAL CIVIL NOT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NO.02786-OSP-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FOR CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STAMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5-3-25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JOHANSON PROJECT #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E-25-8
                                             0+00                                                                                                                 0+50                                                                                               1+00                                                                                       1+50                                                                                                                                               2+00                                                2+25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FOR PERMIT REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ONLY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C-03
        1                                                                                                    2                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3                                                                                                                                                                                          4                                                                                                                                                                                                                5                                                                                                              6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S 21°09'28" W 46.37' VERIFY SCALE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAINAGE PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                                     N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BAR IS ONE INCH ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ORIGINAL DRAWING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   )                                                                                                                                             HINCKLEYS ESTATES SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                               1"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IF NOT ONE INCH ON
                                                     REC. OF SURVEY
                                         BY DIAMOND LAND SURVEYING
                                                      # S2014-06-0304
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (   P RIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4880 SOUTH FLORIBUNDA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THIS SHEET, ADJUST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCALES ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRIVE HOLLADAY, CITY UTAH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 12°22'04" W 40.56'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SLEEPY HOLLOW ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ENTRY # 10539429




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L
                                                                                                                                                                         W-L
                                                                                                                                                      W-L                                                                                                                                                                                   MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S                             CO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                        W-L                   W-L           W-L             W-L                                                                                                                                                                           GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HUA, XY
                                                                                                                                                 WD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  APVD APPROVED
                                                                                                                                            L  O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REC. OF SURVEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHECKED
                                                                                                                                          L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA                          MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                  YH   O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BY STANTEC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                            SLEEP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                                                                              o.w.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AS                                                                                                                                                    # 22-11-105-049 & 050

                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G



                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20                                0   5   10                 20

                                                                                                                                       te
                                                                              PWR                   PWR           PWR             PWR



                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARCEL # 22-11-105-079
                                                                                                                               (pri v
                                                                                                                                                            PWR                                                                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COM
                                    Grant of Easement and/or Right-of-Way Mountain
                                                               Fuel Supply Company
                                                                                                                                                                               PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M                                                                                                                                                                           OWNER TATE, STEPHEN F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S 08°07'53" W 22.64'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CJ
                                                       Recorded: December 29, 1954.                                                                                                                               GAS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1 in. = 20 FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS                        COMM
                                                                 Book: 1156Page: 27
                                                                                                                                                                                      N 87°43'31" E 12.19'
                                                                                                                                                                   GAS                    COMM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 87°43'31" E 189.74'
                                              Entry No.: 1405660 Book,:1156 Page 29                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                    GAS                              COMM
                                              Entry No.: 1405661 Book,:1156 Page GAS
                                                                                 31                                 GAS                       COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N 87°45'00" E
                                                                                                                            COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                    GAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OH


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N 87°43'31" E 177.55'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                            COMM           COMM
                                                                 COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     591.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FOUND 5 8 " REBAR & CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SET BY ELEMENT.
                                                                                                                            N 87°45'00" E 100.00'




                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEGEND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CITY REVIEW COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OH




                                                                                                    GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S 05°33'44" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70.69'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROPERTY LINE                                        EXISTING CONTOURS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROPERTY CORNER                                      PROPOSED CONTOURS




                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P.U.E. LINE/EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4500       FINISH TOP OF SURFACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FIRE HYDRANT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING POWER POLE                                  LANDSCAPING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3 ASPHALT PAVEMENT                               S   EXISTING SEWER MANHOLE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED INLET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .277''




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W        EXISTING WATERLINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E 114400.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0" W 151
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LIGHT POLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS     GAS          EXISTING GAS LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW            OVERHEAD POWER LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                         '
                                                                          " W 159.87




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S 05°56'00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 07°21'0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R.O.W. AS PER ENTRY #1692447
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BOOK.1675; PAGE.60




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2150 SOUTH 1300 EAST SUITE 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ADDRESS 4880 S. FLORIBUNDA DR.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IN FAVOR OF MOUNTAIN FUEL
                                                                               N 05°56'00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Containing 21,856 Sq. Ft. or 0.50 Acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              90.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JOHANSON ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    °




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S 02°43'53" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CIVIL ENGINEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     84.72'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8' -
                                                                                                                                          LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WM
                                                                                                                          ADDRESS 2830 E. SLEEPY HOLLOW DR.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    70' - 0" 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                           Containing 16,802 Sq. Ft. or 0.39 Acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARCEL # 22-11-158-016




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OWNER HANSEN, CHRISTIAN C; JT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             19.9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HANSEN, AMANDA M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                >                                                         DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '                      N-87°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S      45'00"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0" 45'0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         87°        E 38.52'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         59.79
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >                    4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0" W                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S6                   8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S7        7°45'0                                                                                                                         8°4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               >                                                                                                                          0 '00"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
LOT 3 HYDROLOGY CALCS 2,000 CU.FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          >                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   500..0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ____


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A201          2        000''                                                                                                    NO CROSSING AT HANSEN PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        >                                                                                                                                                                                                         ____

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CIVIL PLAN IS TO BE UPDATED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A201




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                             4'
                                                                                                                                                                                               112.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ACCORDINNG TO CONCEPT DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                         0" W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      >
                                                                                                                                                                  7°45'0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                             S7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0'01" W
                                                                                                                                             9.13'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2' - 0"                                                                                                         S 78°1 8'
                                                                                                                                        "W 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4580 SOUTH 2300 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15 .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                          45'00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HOLLADAY, UT 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W



                                                                                                                    S 77°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       801-272-9450
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JURISDICTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EASEMENT ABANDONED & TO BE VACATED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Grant of Easement In favor of: Dry Creek Irrigation Company Recorded: October
                                                                                                                   P.O.B.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20, 1960Entry No.: 1742519 Book: 1751 Page: 129, of the Official Records.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                " E 84.26'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Grant of Easement or Right-of-Way and the terms, conditions and limitations
                                                                                                                   SUB. PLAT
                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  contained therein: In favor of: Sixth Avenue Enterprises, Inc.Recorded: March 23,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1973 Entry No.: 2527246 Book: 3285 Page: 440, of the Official Record. "evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NEW)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         32' - 1 1/8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of irrigation systems resides on property possibly abandoned."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 3
                                                                                                                                                                           " W 83.01'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ADDRESS 4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A NON-EXCLUSIVE 30 FOOT RIGHT-OF-WAY,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 05°56'08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Containing 19,680 Sq. Ft. 0.451 Acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       APPURTENANT TO PARCELS 2, 3 AND 4, FOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PURPOSES OF ACCESS, INGRESS AND EGRESS, AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4                                                                                                                                    DEFINED AND DISCLOSED IN THAT CERTAIN GRANT
                                                                                                                                                                                N 05°59'28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ____                                                            SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A201                                                                                                                                  OF RIGHT-OF-WAY RECORDED MARCH 5, 1996 AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENTRY NO. 6295035 7344 AT PAGE 781 IN THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     " E 149.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-L
                                                                                                                                                                          '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UTILITY EASE
                                                                                                                                                                          " W 147.80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 05°56'08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HINCKLEY ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                >                                                                                     >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     >             >                      >                                >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MENT, REFE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           >
                                                                                                                                                                               N 05°58'00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    >                              >
                                                                                                             LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4888 & 4890 FLORUBUNDA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E 205.77'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               42'30"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           87°42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 87°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W

                                                                                                      PARCEL # 22-11-157-015                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HOLLADAY, UTAH 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17
                                                                                                      OWNER STEED, SCOTT A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R TO CIVIL PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARCEL# 22-11-158-017




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     " E 64.79'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OWNER DELLENBACH, AMY L; TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (ALD FAM TRUST)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                             64.79'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           16                      1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L
                                                  WANDER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ____


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       64' - 7 5/8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A201




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 05°56'08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ADDRESS 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                 WOODS SUB.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        "W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Containing 13,304 Sq. FT. 0.305 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                              N 05°56'08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15

 LOT 4 HYDROLOGY CALCS 1,300 CU.FT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD >                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD                                       >SD                                                         >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                >                     >                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           >                                                                                  >            SD                   >                     >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              >                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS              GAS             GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8' - 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS                GAS                 GAS               GAS    GAS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED CLEAN-OUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S 87°42'30" W 205.77'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FINISH GRADE:4517.12+/-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OWNER AMY L DELLENBACH FAM TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPOSED CLEAN-OUT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FINISH GRADE:4506.87+/-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONCEPTUAL CIVIL NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARCEL # 22-11-158-003




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NO.02786-OSP-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FOR CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FLORIBUNDA DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DELLENBACH, AMY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STAMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FLORIBUNDA HEIGHTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (public street)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 3
                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                            PARCEL # 22-11-157-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARCEL # 22-11-157-007                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L
                                                                                                                                                                  OWNER PEARSON, MATTHEW L & ANGELA M; JT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OWNER VANAUSDAL, CYNTHIA G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5-3-25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JOHANSON PROJECT #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E-25-8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FOR PERMIT REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C-04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        160.12'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
                                                                  1                                                                                                                                                                                   2                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3                                                                                                                                                                                            4                                                                                                                                                                                                         5                                                                                                        6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VERIFY SCALE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ERROSION CONTROL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TR
                                                                                                                                                                     REC. OF SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BAR IS ONE INCH ON
                                                                                                                                                         BY DIAMOND LAND SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                      # S2014-06-0304                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ORIGINAL DRAWING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HINCKLEYS ESTATES SUBDIVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S 12°22'04" W 40.56'                       0                                1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SLEEPY HOLLOW ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENTRY # 10539429
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IF NOT ONE INCH ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THIS SHEET, ADJUST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L                                                                                                                                                                                            MM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L                       W-L             W-L                                                                                                                                                                  GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S                                          CO
                                                                                                                                          W-L            W-L                W-L                W-L
                                                                                                W-L           W-L           W-L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DR.
                                             W-L                    W-L           W-L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SCALES ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L  O W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REC. OF SURVEY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GA                             M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Y HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BY STANTEC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EE P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L                   .w.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  # 22-11-105-049 & 050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             e r.
                                               PWR                    PWR



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t
                                                                                    PWR           PWR           PWR           PWR           PWR                PWR                PWR                PWR                   PWR                        PWR            PWR



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARCEL # 22-11-105-079
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (priv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PWR                                                                                                                      M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COM
                                                                                                                                                  Grant of Easement and/or Right-of-Way Mountain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHED                                                                                                         OWNER TATE, STEPHEN F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S 08°07'53" W 22.64'
                                                                                                                                                                             Fuel Supply Company                                                                                                                                                                     COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HUA, XY
                                                                                                                                                                     Recorded: December 29, 1954.                                                                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 APVD APPROVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS                  COMM
                                                                                                                                                            Entry No.: 1405659 Book: 1156Page: 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N 87°43'31" E 12.19'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHECKED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS                     COMM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N 87°43'31" E 189.74'
                                                                                                                                                            Entry No.: 1405660 Book,:1156 Page 29                                                                              GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS                          COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                   GAS1405661 Book,:1156
                                                                                                                                                            Entry No.:                         31
                                                                                                                                                                                          Page GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS                  COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 87°45'00" E
                                       GAS                  GAS             GAS           GAS           GAS           GAS           GAS              GAS                          GAS                                                                          COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N 87°43'31" E 177.55'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMM                     COMM
                                                                                                                                                                     COMM               COMM
                                                                                                                                                  COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                591.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOUND 5 8 " REBAR & CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SET BY ELEMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N 87°45'00" E 100.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OH
                                                                                          S 87°45'00" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CARPORT
                                                                                             130.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O   HW



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S 05°33'44" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70.69'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20                      0     10        20               40
f.         All areas to be revegetated are to receive revegetation BMPs within 21 days of
           disturbance.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CITY REVIEW COMMENTS
g.         If the existing grade is different from what is shown on this grading plan, stop work                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EM
           and contact the City of LINDON, Engineering Department. Work is to remain stopped                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 in. = 20 FT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GM
           until the City's Engineering Department provides a written notice to resume work.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING HOME
h.         The project owner is responsible for maintaining the streets, storm drains, and




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOCATION APROX.
           channels, ditches and swales free from debris, soil, mud, or other material that would
           cause a public safety concern, violate the City's UPDES permit, state or federal laws,

i.
           or prevent the facility from operating.
           All concrete trucks are to use the designated washout area(s). Failure to comply will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEGEND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .81'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .81'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .277''
           result in a work stop and the offender could be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E 114400.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0" W 151
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0" W 151
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPERTY LINE
j.         L.O.D. barriers are to be placed and maintained until written notification is received




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
           from the Engineering Department. The owner is responsible for maintaining L.O.D.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXISTING STORM DRAIN LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "W
           barriers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                " W 159.87




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S 07°21'0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S 05°56'00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S 07°21'0
k.         If disturbance occurs outside the L.O.D. work will stop and remain stopped until the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIMITS OF DISTURBANCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
           written response is received from the City. PARCEL # 22-11-157-001




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R.O.W. AS PER ENTRY #1692447
l.         The owner is to be responsible for additional   grading information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 2
                                                 OWNER BUTLER,      RONALD Gas & required
                                                                                 ANN R; JT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BOOK.1675; PAGE.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PG INLET PROTECTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N
           throughout the remainder of the project.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ADDRESS 4880 S. FLORIBUNDA DR.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IN FAVOR OF MOUNTAIN FUEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                      N 05°56'00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Containing 21,856 Sq. Ft. or 0.50 Acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  90.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        °




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S 02°43'53" W
                 S 05°56'00" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GA
                                 BMP's for Erosion and Sedimentation




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        84.72'
                    183.07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2150 SOUTH 1300 EAST SUITE 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ADDRESS 2830 E. SLEEPY HOLLOW DR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8' -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            B
      *      Conduct routine inspection or grading or clearing and properly maintain all erosion and




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     70'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Containing 16,802 Sq. Ft. or 0.39 Acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             70' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARCEL # 22-11-158-016




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JOHANSON ENGINEERING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - 0"
             sedimentation control resources.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS
      *      Before commencing grading or clearing, stabilize slopes, areas adjacent to water                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OWNER HANSEN, CHRISTIAN C; JT
             bodies, and the site perimeter to prevent erosion and sediment transport into receiving
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             19.9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HANSEN, AMANDA M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CIVIL ENGINEER
             water and onto adjacent properties and roadways.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
      *      Before grading or clearing, provide and maintain designated stabilized site access




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L
             points for vehicle entry/egress or otherwise prevent vehicle trackout of sediments.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 87°45'00" W 38.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E 38.52'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             45'00"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          87°45'0                                                          N6
      *      Minimize site disturbance and vegetation clearing. Before commencing grading or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W 5             9.79'                    N 87°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S                                                                     8°4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0'00
             clearing, delineate clearing limits, easements, setbacks, and vegetation to be preserved                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4    5'00"                                                                                                            N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S6          "W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S 77°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4' - 0"                                                            8°4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
             by marking in the field.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0'00      50 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E 5 .00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GA
              Upon completion of grading or clearing, thoroughly sweep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3               500..0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            000' '                                                                                                NO CROSSING AT HANSEN PROPERTY
NE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ____

              sediments from paved areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A201          2                                                                                                             CIVIL PLAN IS TO BE UPDATED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ____


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               112.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ACCORDINNG TO CONCEPT DESIGN                                                                                                               BMP: Stabilized Construction Entrance and Tire Wash
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ECO PAN
         A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45'00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S 77°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Quarry spalls (or hog fuel) shall be added if the pad is no longer in accordance with the
WANDER L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               specifications. If the rock (or hog fuel) entrance is not working to keep streets clean,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0'01" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .13'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S 78°1 8'                                   then install wheel wash, sweep streets, or wash streets if wash water can be collected.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W 49




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 156.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S 77°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2' -P.U.E.  0"                                                                                                                                                     (Daily)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10.0'
                                                   BMP's for Erosion Control




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EASEMENT ABANDONED & TO BE VACATED.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BMP: Silt Fence
             *         60 constructionFOUND
                                        daysREBAR
                                               total.& CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Grant of Easement In favor of: Dry Creek Irrigation Company Recorded: October
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P.O.B.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Repair damaged fencing immediately. Intercept concentrated flows and reroute.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20, 1960Entry No.: 1742519 Book: 1751 Page: 129, of the Official Records.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               " E 84.26'
             *         Place stabilizedSET BY NORTHERNentrance and staging yard as shown on
                                        construction                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUB. PLAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Grant of Easement or Right-of-Way and the terms, conditions and limitations

                                                                              TIE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Remove sediment accumulations as 6-inches. Replace deteriorated fencing material.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                        REF. yard)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               contained therein: In favor of: Sixth Avenue Enterprises, Inc.Recorded: March 23,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4580 SOUTH 2300 EAST
                                                                                      '
                                                                                56.33
                       drawing. (place temporary port a john insideB.staging                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1973 Entry No.: 2527246 Book: 3285 Page: 440, of the Official Record. "evidence

                                                                 SU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HOLLADAY, UT 84117
                                                                            "E 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of irrigation systems resides on property possibly abandoned."

                                                                          0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Properly dispose of used fencing. (Weekly and following storms)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              " W 83.01'




             *                                                         '0
                       Construct and place silt fencing as shown on45drawing.
                                                                 77° basin until the
                                                               N catch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEW)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADDRESS 4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR.                                                                               32' - 1 1/8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
             *         Install temporary inlet protection of the




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       801-272-9450
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S 05°56'08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JURISDICTION
                       completion of the project.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Containing 19,680 Sq. Ft. 0.451 Acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L
             *         Temporary detention basin shall be in the location shown on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DUST CONTROL: CONTRACTOR
                       drawing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N 05°59'28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RESPONSIBLE FOR DUST CONTROL DURING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
             *         Plant grass seeds on or before October 15th.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ____



             *         Place erosion control RE-vegetation matting on all cut and fill slopes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A201                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONSTRUCTION PERIOD. MINIMIZE THE
                       2:1 or greater.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AMOUNT OF DUST RAISED DURING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROPOSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            " E 149.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONSTRUCTION PERIOD, AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PERIODICALLY WATER AREA TO PREVENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W-L
          BMP: Dust Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         " W 147.80




          * Re-apply dust controlSUB.
                                  measures                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DUST. (DAILY DURING DRY WEATHER)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STORM WATER NOTES
                                      REF. as
                                           TIEnecessary to keep dust to a minimum. (Daily




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UTILITY EASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S 05°56'08
            during dry weather) N 05°58'30" W 284.95'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *   Maintain & inspect vehicles regularly to be sure they are not leaking fluids.
          BMP: Wheel Wash                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *      Recycle or dispose of waste fluids properly-never dump in storm drains. Keep




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N 05°58'00




          * Wheel wash water shall not be discharged into a storm drain or the site's storm water                                                                                                                                   LOT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 trash and receptacles on site for the storage of refuse.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MENT, REFE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
            collection system. Use closed-loop re-circulation, land application, or discharge to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E 205.77'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    42'30"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                87°42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N 87°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARCEL # 22-11-157-015                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    *      Dry sweep the areas around storm drains, and dispose of the waste as trash




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W


            sanitary sewer (by permit). (Daily)                                                                                                                                                                              OWNER STEED, SCOTT A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rather than hosing debris down the storm drain.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      17
                                                              LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10.0' P.U.E.                                                                                                                                     *      Do not dump, or allow contractors to dump, anything onto sidewalks, streets or




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HINCKLEY ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          parking strips. Clean storm drains regularly to keep clear of refuse and excessive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R TO CIVIL PL
          BMP: Temporary Detention Pond                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARCEL# 22-11-158-017                                                                     build-up of leaves and sediments.
          * Ensure storm water flows towards temporary detention pond at all times. Remove




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.79'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OWNER DELLENBACH, AMY L; TR                                                           *      Minimize sand or salt usage during the winter months- use alternatives such as




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4888 & 4890 FLORUBUNDA
            sediment when it reaches a depth of one foot. Repair damage to pond embankments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (ALD FAM TRUST)                                                                         calcium chloride. If these materials are stored outdoors, cover them to prevent




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HOLLADAY, UTAH 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              °56'08" E 6
            and slopes. (Weekly and following storms)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             " W 64.79'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ORIBUNDA DR. (NEW)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 runoff contamination.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AN
                                                                                                                                                                      WANDER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 4                                                                                                                                                                       16                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ADDRESS 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ____




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                     WOODS SUB.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20' - 0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          64' - 7 5/8"
           BMP: Storm Drain Inlet Protection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A201                                                                                                                                      BMP's for Handling and Disposal of Concrete and Cement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Containing 13,304 Sq. FT. 0.305 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS
           * Replace clogged filter fabric. Clean sediment from stone filters. Do not wash collected




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S 05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N 05°56'08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS

             sediments into storm drains - remove to soil stockpile. (Weekly and following storms)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Concrete and cement-related mortars are toxic to fish and the aquatic environment and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             require proper handling and disposal to minimize or eliminate discharges to gutters, storm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   drains, and watercourses.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P.O.B. PARCEL ID # 22-11-157-010                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PARCEL 3-TITLE REPORT                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD                          SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WV                                                                                    *    Never dispose of wash-out into the street, storm drains, drainage ditches, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ACCEPTED AT INTERSECT OF                                                                                                                                                                                        SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            watercourses. Wash out concrete transit mixers only in designated wash-out areas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WANDER WOODS AND FLORIBUNA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAS                 GAS                GAS                                                               where the water will flow into temporary pit in dirt area or onto stockpiles of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HEIGHTS SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            aggregate base or sand.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8' - 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPOSED CLEAN-OUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S 87°42'30" W 205.77'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FINISH GRADE:4517.12+/-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OWNER AMY L DELLENBACH FAM TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROPOSED CLEAN-OUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BMP's for Pavement Construction Management




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FINISH GRADE:4506.87+/-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARCEL # 22-11-158-003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Proper management of pavement construction materials and activities minimizes or eliminates




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FLORIBUNDA DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DELLENBACH, AMY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   discharges to gutters, storm drains, and watercourses resulting from on-site road paving,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FLORIBUNDA HEIGHTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   surfacing, and asphalt removal activities.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (public street)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       *    Apply concrete, asphalt, and seal coat during dry weather to prevent contaminants




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            from contacting stormwater runoff.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONCEPTUAL CIVIL NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FOR CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NO.02786-OSP-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       *    Cover storm drain inlets and manholes when paving or applying seal coat, tack seal,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STAMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           slurry seal, fog seal, or similar materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       *    Always park paving machines over drip pans or absorbent materials, since they tend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARCEL # 22-11-157-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PARCEL # 22-11-157-007                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OWNER VANAUSDAL, CYNTHIA G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to drip continuously.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OWNER PEARSON, MATTHEW L & ANGELA M; JT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       *    Protect drainage ways by using earth dikes, straw bales, sand bags, or other controls




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            which will divert or trap and filter runoff.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5-3-25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JOHANSON PROJECT #
                                                     '
                                                     " E 137.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S 02°17'30" E 160.12'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E-25-8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2°17'30" E 160.12'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FOR PERMIT REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ONLY
                                                       S 05°58'30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C-08
                       5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R .O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RI
                                                                                                                                                                                  BY DIAMOND LAND SURVEYING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (P
                                                                                                                                                                                               # S2014-06-0304

                                                                                                                    HINCKLEY ESTATES SUBDIVISION & PUD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
                                                                                                                               SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SLEEPY HOLLOW ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ENTRY # 10539429
                                                                                                                     LOCATED WITHIN, SALT LAKE COUNTY UTAH. A PART OF
                                                        FOUND 2" ROUND BRASS CAP                                      THE N.W. 1/4 SEC. 11, T. 2 S., R. 1. E. S.L.B.&M. CITY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W  DR                                          .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REC. OF SURVEY
                                                        AT THE INTERSECTION OF WANDER LN.
                                                                                                                                      HOLLADAY, UTAH.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P Y HO    L                                                                                                                                                                                                        BY STANTEC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4-28-2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E E
                                                        & SLEEPY HOLLOW DR. POINT #22111005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L                   .w.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      # 22-11-105-049 & 050
                                                        SEC. 11 T.2S;R1E.                 PWR                      PWR       PWR          PWR        PWR      PWR      PWR           PWR          PWR            PWR                            PWR          PWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S PWR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t e r .o                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARCEL # 22-11-105-079
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (priv a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PWR

                                                                                                                                                                             Grant of Easement and/or Right-of-Way Mountain
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Fuel Supply Company
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PWR                                                                                                                                                                                                  OWNER TATE, STEPHEN F
                                                                                                                                                                                                Recorded: December 29, 1954.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        36.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                       Entry No.: 1405659 Book: 1156Page: 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N 87°43'31" E 12.19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N 87°43'31" E 189.74'
                                                                                                                                                                                       Entry No.: 1405660 Book,:1156 Page 29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                       Entry No.: 1405661 Book,:1156 Page 31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N 87°45'00" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OH


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   591.00'                                                N 87°43'31" E 177.55'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FOUND 5 8 " REBAR & CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SET BY ELEMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N 87°45'00" E 100.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OH
                                                                                                                                     S 87°45'00" W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             155.0°'
                                                                                                                                        130.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E   A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DAB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B   UIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUILDABLE AREA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         90.0°'                                                                            ME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TU RE UPDATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              26.0'                                                                                                                                                                                         WITH FU

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HOME                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .81'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .277''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E 114400.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0" W 151
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      88.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S 05°56'00"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          " W 159.87




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S 07°21'0
                                                                                                                               PARCEL # 22-11-157-001                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R.O.W. AS PER ENTRY #1692447
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BOOK.1675; PAGE.60
                                                                                                                         OWNER BUTLER, RONALD G & ANN R; JT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OWNER'S DEDICATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ADDRESS 4880 S. FLORIBUNDA DR.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IN FAVOR OF MOUNTAIN FUEL




                                                                                                                                                                                                               N 05°56'00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Containing 21,856 Sq. Ft. or 0.50 Acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  90.0°'
                                                                    S 05°56'00" E
                                                                       183.07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ADDRESS 2830 E. SLEEPY HOLLOW DR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Containing 16,802 Sq. Ft. or 0.39 Acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARCEL # 22-11-158-016




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OWNER HANSEN, CHRISTIAN C; JT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HANSEN, AMANDA M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L
 S 05°57'10" E 530.10'
MEAS. MON. TO MON.
                                                                                                                                   SUBDIVISION NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E 38.52'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           00" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        45'00"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    87°45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W 5        9.79'                        N 87°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4   5'00"                                                                                          10.0'         N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S 77°                                                                                                                        8°4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0'00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 500..0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      000''
                                                      ANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12.6               4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "W 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          45'00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S 77°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20.0'
                                                       WANDER L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0'01" W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9.13 '                                                                                                                                                                                                    EASEMENT ABANDONED & TO BE VACATED.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S 78°1 8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "W 4                                                                                                                                                                                                           Grant of Easement In favor of: Dry Creek Irrigation Company Recorded: October                                                                                                                                                                                                   156.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           45'00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S 77°                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20, 1960Entry No.: 1742519 Book: 1751 Page: 129, of the Official Records.                                                                10.0' P.U.E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Grant of Easement or Right-of-Way and the terms, conditions and limitations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  contained therein: In favor of: Sixth Avenue Enterprises, Inc.Recorded: March 23,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1973 Entry No.: 2527246 Book: 3285 Page: 440, of the Official Record. "evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P.O.B.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of irrigation systems resides on property possibly abandoned."




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            " E 84.26'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SUB. PLAT
                                                                                                                                                    TIE
                                                                                                                                               REF.     '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S 78°10'01" W
                                                                                                                                        SUB. " E 156.33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BUILDING PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30.16'
                                                                                                                                                0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            " W 83.01'
                                                                                                                                            45'0
                                                                                                                                    N   77°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ADDRESS 4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A NON-EXCLUSIVE 30 FOOT RIGHT-OF-WAY,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S 05°56'08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Containing 19,680 Sq. Ft. 0.451 Acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUILDING PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                APPURTENANT TO PARCELS 2, 3 AND 4, FOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PURPOSES OF ACCESS, INGRESS AND EGRESS, AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DEFINED AND DISCLOSED IN THAT CERTAIN GRANT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N 05°59'28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OF RIGHT-OF-WAY RECORDED MARCH 5, 1996 AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AFFECTED BY RECORDATION OF COVENANTS,                                                                                                                                                                                                ENTRY NO. 6295035 7344 AT PAGE 781 IN THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RECORDED JULY 11, 2017 AS ENTRY NO.                                                                                                                                                                                                  OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12573540 IN BOOK 10576 AT PAGE 6886.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                " E 149.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           150.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           147.80'




                                                                                                       SUB. REF. TIE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BUILDING PAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S 05°56'08
                                                                                                       N 05°58'30" W 284.95'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N 05°56'00" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N 05°58'00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (MEAS.) 123.24' (REC.) 124.15'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARCEL # 22-11-157-015                                                                                                                                                                                              N 87°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S     42'30"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       87°42'     E 205.77'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30" W                                                                              10.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S 05°56'00" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (MEAS.) 118.25' (REC.) 119.12'
                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-L
                                                                                                                           E 12                                                                                                                  OWNER STEED, SCOTT A
                                                                                                                         TI 23.          LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.0' P.U.E.
                                                                                                                        F 4
                                                                                                                    . RE E 1
                                                                                                                  B 8"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARCEL# 22-11-158-017
                                                                                                               SU 8'0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                " E 64.79'
                                                                                                                  °1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OWNER DELLENBACH, AMY L; TR
                                                                                                               36
                                                                                                           N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (ALD FAM TRUST)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           " W 64.79'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING PA
                                                                                                                                                                                            WANDER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S 05°56'08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ADDRESS 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BUILDING PA

                                                                                                                                                                                           WOODS SUB.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Containing 13,304 Sq. FT. 0.305 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 05°56'08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N 87°40'14" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20.0'                                            30.06'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W-L
                                                                                                           FOUND 2.5" FLAT BRASS CAP                                                                    VICINITY MAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                150.0'
                                                                                                           AT THE INTERSECTION OF WANDER LN.
                                                                                                           & FLORIBUNDA DR. POINT #22111004                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.0'
                                                                                                           SEC. 11 T.2S;R1E.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HINCKLEY ESTATES SUBDIVISION & PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 87°42'30" W 205.77'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FLORIBUNDA DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SUBDIVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OWNER AMY L DELLENBACH FAM TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOCATED WITHIN, SALT LAKE COUNTY UTAH. A PART OF THE N.W. 1/4 SEC. 11, T. 2 S., R. 1. E.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARCEL # 22-11-158-003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S.L.B.&M. CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (public street)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L
                                                                                          4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DELLENBACH, AMY
                                                                               " W 1015.4
                                                                                BEARING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FLORIBUNDA HEIGHTS
                                                                                  MON.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOCATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10      0                   20
                          W. 1 4 COR. SEC. 11,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20                                                    40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 4
                         T.2 S.;R.1E. S.L.B.&M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L
                         (NOT FOUND)
 N 00°08'32" W 407.11'




                                                                       MON. TO
     CALCULATED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ( IN FEET )
                                                                    BASIS OF
                                                                    N 05°58'30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1 inch = 20 ft.
                               FOUND 2.5" FLAT BRASS CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JOHANSON                                      SURVEY DESIGN SEPTIC PLANNING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W-L
                               WITNESS CORNER TO THE W. 1 4 COR.
                               SEC. 11 T.2 S.;R.1E. PT.#2S1E106A
                                                                                               FOUND 2.5" FLAT BRASS CAP
                                                                                               AT THE INTERSECTION OF CASTO LN.
                                                                                               & WANDER LN. POINT # 22113001
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARCEL # 22-11-157-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARCEL # 22-11-157-007
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OWNER VANAUSDAL, CYNTHIA G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OWNER: Rennie Duangkamon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DEVELOPER:Rennie Duangkamon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OWNER PEARSON, MATTHEW L & ANGELA M; JT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P.O. BOX 18941
                                                                                               SEC. 11 T.2S;R1E.
                            S 89°59'39" E 824.96'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84118




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Shane Johanson P.L.S. 801-815-2541
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PREPARED: 4-28-2025
                            (89°56' 824.95 A.R.P.)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WM




                LEGEND                                                                                                                                              City Engineer                                                                     Community Development                                                                                                                                                                                          Planning Commission                                                                                     City Attorney                                                                                                    City of Holladay Approval                                                                                                             Salt Lake County Recorder
                                                           SALT LAKE COUNTY SURVEYOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Health Department                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Number
           = SECTIONAL CORNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Approved this_____________________day                                                           Approval as to form this                                                                   day                                     Approved and accepted this                                                                                       Recorded #
           = STREET MONUMENT                                                                                                                               Approved this_____________________day
                                                              RECORD OF SURVEY NUMBER S2025-03-0263                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            State of Utah, County of Salt Lake, recorded and filed at the request of
           = REBAR & CAP TO BE SET
             LS 70754114 R.S. JOHANSON                                                                                                                     of ___________________ A.D., 20                           .                                Approved this_____________________day                                                    Approved this_____________________day                                                                       of_____________________A.D., 20____by                                                           of                                                        A.D., 20                                                                                    day of                                        , A.D. 20                              .                                                                                                                Account
           = REPRESENTS PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of ___________________ A.D., 20                                .                         of ___________________ A.D., 20                                                       .                     the Holladay Planning Commission.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Date                    Time                       Book              Page                  .              Sheet
           = TYP. P.U.E. & PRIVATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Manager
             UTILITY & EGRESS/ INGRESS

                                                           Salt Lake County Surveyor / Reviewer                                         Date                                                                                                          Community Development Director.                                                          Salt Lake County, Health Department.                                                                        Planning Commission Chair                                                                       City of Holladay Attorney                                                                                                          Recorder                                                                                                         Fee $                                            Salt Lake County Recorder Deputy                           of                       Sheets
                                                                                                                                                           City of Holladay Engineer                    Date
Hinckley Estates Subdivision & PUD Narrative

Address: LOT 1 - 4880 S FLORIBUNDA DR., LOT 2 - 2830 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR., LOT 3 -
4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR.,LOT 4 - 4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR.

Holladay City Planning Commission Members,

We respectfully submit this narrative in support of a proposed residential subdivision and PUD within the
City of Holladay. The request involves four parcels. Two parcels with two existing homes and two new
proposed parcels to create two new single family homes. The intent is to preserve and protect some
mature trees and greenery and to maintain the character of the surrounding neighborhood while making
efficient and responsible use of the property.

Project Overview: The subdivision is located in R-1-10. With typical subdivision, our greenery and some
main mature trees will need to be removed. Due to the one of the lot being on the inside. Private roads
will need to be added. For a home to be built on the inside lot, it will also require removing most trees and
vegetation. We are proposing this subdivision in conjunction with PUD so we could provide an essential
protection for existing greenery and significant trees on site. PUD also provided us with more flexibility to
build two residential homes on both new proposed parcels. The homes will be owner-occupied and built
with consideration of the scale and aesthetics of the surrounding neighborhood.

Traffic Impacts: The addition of two single-family homes is not expected to result in any significant
increase in traffic volume or congestion. Vehicular access will be provided via Floribunda Drive. For fire
access purposes we are proposing 60-FOOT “Y”

Improved Quality of Life: PUD will help us be able to protect necessary greenery, decrease impervious
space and create more flexible buildable areas with greenspace effort. With the current landscape, new
landscape and preserved greenery within the subdivision will contribute to improve air quality, reduce
noise pollution and preserve some natural habitats

Compliance with Conditional Use Standards: With our best understanding, we believe this project
meets the standards outlined in Holladay City Ordinance 13.08.040F. The use will not be detrimental to
the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity. The project involves
low-density residential use that aligns with the surrounding properties and will not introduce any unusual
or incompatible impacts to the neighborhood. No nuisances, hazards, or disruptions are anticipated. The
subdivision supports the goals of responsible residential development and neighborhood preservation

We appreciate your consideration of this request and welcome the opportunity to discuss the proposal
further. We are committed to a collaborative process and look forward to working with staff and the
Commission to ensure the best outcome for the neighborhood and the City of Holladay.

Sincerely,

Duangkamon Rennie

3361 W Cramden Dr., Lehi UT 84043

04/11/2025
04/11/2025


Duangkamon & Christian Rennie
3361 W Cramden Dr
Lehi, UT 84043
702-592-7799


Dear Neighbor:



A neighborhood meeting will be held on Monday, April 28th, 2025, from 5:00–6:00 PM
at Paul and Jeanie’s home (2830 E Sleepy Hollow Drive, Holladay, UT 84117) to
discuss a proposed new subdivision and PUD called Hinckley Estates. This subdivision
includes four parcels: 2830 E Sleepy Hollow Dr, 4880 S Floribunda Dr., 4888 S
Floribunda Dr., and 4890 S Floribunda Dr.

We are proposing two new residential homes to be built at a future date—one on 4888
S Floribunda Dr and one on 4890 S Floribunda Dr.

Please join us to learn more about the subdivision, ask questions, and share your
thoughts.

Please note that this is NOT a City of Holladay Planning Commission or City Council
meeting. It is an informal neighborhood meeting prior to submitting a pending
application to the City of Holladay.



Thank you,
Duangkamon & Christian Rennie
                                                                                                                         My Map




April 12, 2025                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1:5,553
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0           0.04           0.07                         0.14 mi

                                                                                                                                                                                                            0          0.05          0.1                       0.2 km
                                                                                                                                                                                               Esri, HERE, iPC, County of Salt Lake, Bureau of Land Management, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                               AGRC, Esri, HERE, Garmin, INCREMENT P, NGA, USGS, Maxar

                                                                                                                                                                                                      This map was created by the office of the Salt Lake County Assessor, in
     The information depicted here is to be taken as an approximate fit in regards to the spatial position of the layers presented. This map is not intended to represent an actual field Survey of, nor establish the acutal relation between, any of the layers depicted here.
PARCEL_ID            PROP_TYPE OWNER_NAME                                 PROPERTY_LOCATION
22-11-105-036-0000         957 CHRISTENSON, BRUCE & JUNE; TRS (C FM TRS   2847 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR
22-11-105-036-0000         957 CHRISTENSON, BRUCE & JUNE; TRS (C FM TRS   2847 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR
22-11-105-053-0000         111 OLDROYD, RICHARD J & CHERILL (JT)          2829 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR
22-11-105-054-0000         111 ZALK FAM REV TR ET AL                      2819 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR
22-11-105-058-0000         111 FEDERSPIEL, RYAN & MASTALOUDIS, ANGELA;    4865 S WANDER LN
22-11-105-069-0000         957 CHRISTENSON, BRUCE & JUNE; TRS (B&JC TRU   2857 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR
22-11-105-071-0000         111 CHAD & KRISTIN CHRISTENSEN FAM ET AL       2857 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR
22-11-105-076-0000         957 FAIRBANKS, BRANDON & HEATHER; JT           2860 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR
22-11-105-077-0000         111 FAIRBANKS, BRANDON & HEATHER; JT           2860 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR
22-11-105-078-0000         111 FELTS, M CORLAND                           2858 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR
22-11-105-079-0000         111 TATE, STEPHEN F                            2854 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR
22-11-105-081-0000         111 SLEEPY HOLLOW HOLDINGS, LLC                2815 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR
22-11-151-009-0000         111 WATKINS, DAVID R & HOLLY; JT               2769 E SOMMET DR
22-11-151-010-0000         111 JOAN BYERLINE FAM TR ET AL                 2783 E SOMMET DR
22-11-151-011-0000         111 SACHARNY, DAVID J                          2797 E SOMMET DR
22-11-151-019-0000         111 DANA R JOHNSON FAM LIV TR JOHNSON, DANA    2766 E WREN RD
22-11-151-021-0000         111 LEE, GEOFFREY; JT ET AL                    4864 S WANDER LN
22-11-151-022-0000         111 PARRY, KRISTA; JT ET AL                    4874 S WANDER LN
22-11-153-005-0000         111 GARCIA, CALLIE A; JT GARCIA, JOHN D A; J   4894 S REGENCY ST
22-11-153-006-0000         111 RICHARD ROSCOE & KAREN HAMMOND NELSON FA   4906 S REGENCY ST
22-11-153-007-0000         111 RANDALL & KATHRYN RYSER TR ET AL           4920 S REGENCY ST
22-11-153-008-0000         111 STONESTREET, DORIS M; TR (S FAM TR)        4930 S REGENCY ST
22-11-156-001-0000         111 JACK, JOSEPH E & ELAINE L; TRS             4893 S REGENCY ST
22-11-156-002-0000         111 JENSEN, P DAVID & JULIE B; TRS             4903 S REGENCY ST
22-11-156-003-0000         111 LARSEN, DAVID C & CAMILLE J; TRS (D&CL T   4915 S REGENCY ST
22-11-156-004-0000         111 HERRSCHER LIV TR ET AL                     4925 S REGENCY ST
22-11-156-005-0000         111 CHRISTINE MADSEN TR MADSEN, CHRISTINE; T   4935 S REGENCY ST
22-11-156-006-0000         111 BRUCE KEVIN ROWLEY & TIEA LYNN ROWLEY LI   4945 S REGENCY ST
22-11-156-007-0000         111 JERRY & JAYNE NELSON FAMILY TRUST; ET AL   4955 S REGENCY ST
22-11-156-013-0000         111 HUGHART, BRENT E                           2798 E SOMMET DR
22-11-156-014-0000         111 PULVER, MARK & ASHLEY; JT                  4904 S WANDER LN
22-11-156-015-0000         111 MARTIN & ANNE BANKS REV TR ET AL           4916 S WANDER LN
22-11-156-016-0000         111 GUSS-JOHNSON, NADINE L & JOHNSON, CLAYTO   4928 S WANDER LN
22-11-156-017-0000         111 VAN BOERUM, DREW H                         4940 S WANDER LN
22-11-156-018-0000         111 GREENHAM, MARK; JT GREENHAM, JOANNA; JT    4958 S WANDER LN
22-11-156-019-0000         111 ERMINI, BRANDON; JT ERMINI, GELSEY; JT     4968 S WANDER LN
22-11-156-019-0000         111 ERMINI, BRANDON; JT ERMINI, GELSEY; JT     4968 S WANDER LN
22-11-157-001-0000         111 BUTLER, RONALD G & ANN R; JT               2822 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR
22-11-157-004-0000         957 HINCKLEY, JEAN F; TR ( JFH TRST )          4890 S FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-157-005-0000         111 SIMONSON, DOLORES A                        2825 E FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-157-006-0000         111 PEARSON, MATTHEW L & ANGELA M; JT          2841 E FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-157-007-0000         111 VANAUSDAL, CYNTHIA G                       2865 E FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-157-010-0000         957 HINCKLEY, JEAN F; TR ( JFH TR )            4888 S FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-157-015-0000         111 SCOTT A STEED FAM LIV TR ET AL             4905 S WANDER LN
22-11-157-016-0000         111 PAUL & JEAN HINCKLEY RENNIE FAMILY TRUST   2830 E SLEEPY HOLLOW DR
22-11-157-017-0000         111 JEAN F HINCKLEY TR HINCKLEY, JEAN F; TR    4880 S FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-158-003-0000         111 AMY L DELLENBACH FAM TR DELLENBACH, AMY    4915 S FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-158-005-0000         111 COONS, WAYNE L & SHARON L; TRS ( C FM TR   4941 S WANDER LN
22-11-158-006-0000         111 FALKNER, DANE R & AHLIN, MARY JO; JT       2840 E FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-158-007-0000         111 LORI ANN CLARK REV TR ET AL                2856 E FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-158-008-0000         111 CLOWARD, TOM V & STEINVOORT, CARIN S; JT   2866 E FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-158-009-0000         111 HOLMBERG, DOUGLAS L & FERN L (SANDY); TR   2829 E OLD COLONY CIR
22-11-158-010-0000         111 GOCHNOUR, WILLIAM W; JT GOCHNOUR, OLIVIA   2845 E OLD COLONY CIR
22-11-158-011-0000         111 PRICE, BRENT G                             2861 E OLD COLONY CIR
22-11-158-016-0000         111 HANSEN, CHRISTIAN C; JT HANSEN, AMANDA M   4867 S FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-158-017-0000         957 DELLENBACH, AMY L; TR (ALD FAM TRUST)      4891 S FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-158-017-0000         957 DELLENBACH, AMY L; TR (ALD FAM TRUST)      4891 S FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-158-020-0000         111 MEIER, EMILIE                              2875 E OLD COLONY CIR
22-11-158-021-0000         111 NYDEGGER, DAVID R; JT NYDEGGER, RACHELLE   2870 E FLORIBUNDA DR
22-11-176-006-0000         111 CHRISTOPHER KELLEY & ANNE MAGLIONE 2017    4878 S NANILOA DR
22-11-176-009-0000         111 DAVID & EILEEN RUSSELL FAMILY TRUST 5/1    4906 S NANILOA DR
22-11-176-010-0000         111 CHATWIN, PATRICIA E; TR                    4918 S NANILOA DR
22-11-176-022-0000         111 MCALLISTER, JOSEPH D; JT MCALLISTER, MAR   4888 S NANILOA DR
22-11-176-023-0000         111 CLAYTON, DANIEL B & JACELYN K; TC          4896 S NANILOA DR
Hinckley Estates Subdivision & PUD Neighborhood Information Meeting

April 28th at 5:00 PM at Paul & Jeanie’s Home (2830 E Sleepy Hollow Drive, Holladay, UT 84117)



Name                                Address                        Signature




Meeting Minutes:
Hinckley Estates Subdivision & PUD Neighborhood Meeting - 04/28/2025

Topic to discuss for Neighborhood meeting
   ●​   Introduce who we are, this has been a family lots for over 100 years
   ●​   Reason for meeting, letting neighbors know we are proposing two new single homes on lot 4888 and 4890.
   ●​   Reason for proposing this subdivision with PUD: Preserve mature trees and make sure both lots are
        buildable. What is PUD? Planned Unit Development help with more flexibility to adapt to lot shape and size.
   ●​   Total site is 71,642 sf or 1.65 acre. Density lots allowed 7 totals so with 2 existing we can fit 5 more homes
        on those lots if we would like to turn it into a townhome. But we want to keep this as a quiet residential area.
   ●​   Questions


Meeting minutes:
  ●​ Opened the meeting introducing the buyers and the seller at 5:10pm
  ●​ Discussed the history of the land and how it has been in the family for 90 years. We are
      continuing to keep it in the family with this purchase and proposed PUD. Keeping the
      property in the family was the goal of the seller, Jean Hinckley.
  ●​ Discussed the current property lines (north/south) and the complications with those lots
      to build on.
          ○​ Land locked lot is currently not a buildable lot
          ○​ Additional road needed and can add complication to utility
  ●​ Shifted to the new proposed lines running east/west for easier road access and ability to
      build houses on those lots
  ●​ Focused on only one residential home being built on each lot
  ●​ There were a number of questions regarding why a PUD and concerns with a PUD
          ○​ Confusion over the difference between PUD and HOA’s
          ○​ Questions about why we are doing a PUD
          ○​ Discussion on the size of homes that can be built and the setback to other
              properties
          ○​ The impact of PUD and the size of it, 4 properties are included.

   ●​ There was concern from the owner of the house on the south side of the 2 lots (Ms.
      Cindy Gubler) specifically around the setback of the house and concerns that the PUD
      will allow a home to be built too close to her property line. She mentioned she was going
      to pushback on the city for this, even though we explained there are still guidelines we
      need to follow when building
   ●​ Conversation changed to the right of way and easement of Floribunda Drive since it is a
      private road and there isn’t a consensus between the neighbors on who has right of way.
      We will need to walk through this as neighbors. There was little concern over the PUD
      with these neighbors but more focused on the road.
           ○​ At this point people started to leave the meeting, around 6pm.
   ●​ Overall the neighbors were supportive of the PUD with the exception of Ms. Gubler and
      her concern of the setback of the home.
   ●​ There were 20-25 people in attendance.
                                      3340 North Center Street, Suite 100, Lehi, UT 84043
                                          Phone: 801 407 8355 | Fax: 801 407 8395


                                      REAL PROPERTY TITLE REPORT

                                                         NOTICE
At your request, Cottonwood Title Insurance Agency, Inc. (“Cottonwood”) has conducted a search of public
records and provides the following Report based on that search. Please note that this Report is NOT: (i) title
insurance; (ii) a commitment for title insurance; (iii) an abstract of title; or (iv) a guarantee of the status of
title or of any information reflected in this Report. No representation is made or liability assumed as to the
effect, completeness, validity, priority or the accuracy of any disclosure herein or the various documents reported
herein. The Report is provided as an accommodation to you for informational purposes only, and any liability of
Cottonwood in connection with this Report is strictly limited to the compensation Cottonwood receives from you for
issuing the Report.
If you desire title insurance or a guarantee respecting any information reflected in this Report, please notify
Cottonwood so that Cottonwood may assist you in obtaining such coverage through one of our title insurance
underwriters.


                                                         REPORT
File Number: 187165-RCF

1.        Effective Date: February 11, 2025 at 7:30AM

2.        The estate or interest in the land described or referred to in this Report is Fee Simple as to Parcels 1, 2, 3
          and 4; Easement as to Parcel 5 and title thereto is at the effective date hereof vested in:
          Paul Rennie and Jean Hinckley Rennie, or their successors, as Trustees of The Paul and Jean Hinckley
          Rennie Family Trust dated the 17th day of November, 2022, as amended, as to Parcel 1 and Jean F.
          Hinckley, as Trustee of The Jean F. Hinckley Trust, dated May 18, 2015, as to Parcels 2, 3 and 4
3.        The land referred to in this Report is situated in the County of Salt Lake, State of Utah, and is described as
          follows:

          See Exhibit A attached hereto

NOTE: Parcel Identification Numbers: 22-11-157-016, 22-11-157-017, 22-11-157-010 and 22-11-157-004 (for
                                     reference purposes only)




Real Property Title Report                                                                                    Page 1 of 4
                                                                                           File Number: 187165-RCF

                                                RECORD MATTERS

The search of public records conducted by Cottonwood for this Report did not include a search of the State
Construction Registry or any other non-public record sources. Cottonwood makes no representations, and
disclaims any liability, concerning the existence or absence of any filings or other information on the State
Construction Registry.

The following items of record may affect title to the land:

1.        Taxes for the year 2025 are accruing as a lien not yet due and payable under Parcel No.
          22-11-157-016. Taxes for the year 2024 have been paid in the amount of $9,150.64 under Parcel
          No. 22-11-157-016. (affects Parcel 1)

          NOTE: Records for the year 2025 show a prepayment in the amount of $1,000.00.

          Taxes for the year 2025 are accruing as a lien not yet due and payable under Parcel No.
          22-11-157-017. Taxes for the year 2024 have been paid in the amount of $4,533.06 under Parcel
          No. 22-11-157-017. (affects Parcel 2)

          Taxes for the year 2025 are accruing as a lien not yet due and payable under Parcel No.
          22-11-157-010. Taxes for the year 2024 have been paid in the amount of $1,100.93 under Parcel
          No. 22-11-157-010. (affects Parcel 3)

          Taxes for the year 2025 are accruing as a lien not yet due and payable under Parcel No.
          22-11-157-004. Taxes for the year 2024 have been paid in the amount of $3,119.83 under Parcel
          No. 22-11-157-004. (affects Parcel 4)

2.        The herein described Land is located within the boundaries of Granite School District, Wasatch
          Front Waste and Recycle District, Central Utah Water Conservancy District, Mt. Olympus
          Improvement District, South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement District, Holladay City, and is
          subject to any and all charges and assessments levied thereunder.

3.        Right of Way and Easement Grant, in favor of Mountain Fuel Supply Company, to lay, maintain,
          operate, repair, inspect, protect, remove and replace pipe lines, valves, valve boxes, and other
          gas transmission and distribution facilities and incidental purposes, through and across a portion
          of the subject Land. Said Right of Way and Easement Grant recorded December 22, 1959, as
          Entry No. 1692447, in Book 1675, at Page 60. (affects Parcel 2)

4.        Notice of Easement, recorded October 20, 1960 as Entry No. 1742519 in Book 1751 at Page 129.
          (exact location not disclosed)

5.        Terms, provisions, covenants, conditions, restrictions, easements, charges, assessments and
          liens provided for in that certain Covenants recorded April 26, 1996 as Entry No. 6341272 in Book
          7384 at Page 2995, but omitting any covenant, condition or restriction, if any, based on race,
          color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin unless and only to the extent that
          the covenant, condition or restriction (a) is exempt under Title 42 of the United States Code, or (b)
          relates to handicap, but does not discriminate against handicapped persons.

          Recordation of Covenants, recorded July 11, 2017 as Entry No. 12573540 in Book 10576 at Page
          6886.

6.        Terms and conditions of that certain Grant of Right-of-Way recorded March 5, 1996 as Entry No.
          6295035 in Book 7344 at Page 781.

7.        The effects, if any, of that certain Notice of Permission recorded January 5, 2016 as Entry No.
          12200238 in Book 10393 at Page 2823.

Real Property Title Report                                                                                     Page 2 of 4
                                                                                         File Number: 187165-RCF

                                                RECORD MATTERS
                                                     (CONTINUED)


8.        Revolving Credit Deed of Trust to secure an indebtedness in the amount shown below, and any
          other obligations secured thereby: Trustor: Jean F. Hinckley, and her successors as Trustee of
          The Jean F. Hinckley Trust dated May 18, 2015; Trustee: ZB, N.A. dba Zions First National Bank;
          Beneficiary: ZB, N.A. dba Zions First National Bank; Amount: $100,000.00; Dated: June 13, 2018;
          Recorded: July 3, 2018 as Entry No. 12803746 in Book 10690 at Page 3785. (affects Parcel 2)

9.        A Deed of Trust to secure an indebtedness in the amount shown below, and any other obligations
          secured thereby: Trustor: Paul R. Rennie and Jean Hinckley Rennie, as joint tenants with right of
          survivorship; Trustee: Zions Bancorporation, N.A. dba Zions Bank; Beneficiary: Mortgage
          Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. ''MERS'', solely as nominee for Zions Bancorporation, N.A.
          dba Zions Bank; Amount: $1,683,000.00; Dated: November 10, 2022; Recorded: November 14,
          2022 as Entry No. 14041921 in Book 11385 at Page 2875. (affects Parcel 1)

          Construction Conversion Modification Agreement (Adjustable Interest Rate), recorded September
          4, 2024 as Entry No. 14283999 in Book 11515 at Page 8175.

10.       The effects, if any, of that certain Boundary Line Agreement, recorded November 27, 2024 as
          Entry No. 14319165 in Book 11535 at Page 7121.

          NOTE: The legal descriptions contained therein appear to be erroneous.

11.       Right of Way Agreement for Salt Lake City Suburban Sanitary District (No. 1) Pipe Line in favor of
          Salt Lake City Suburban Sanitary District to lay, maintain, operate, repair, remove, or replace the
          pipe line for transportation through and across said Land and incidental purposes, by instrument
          dated July 25, 1958 and recorded February 21, 1966, as Entry No. 2143399, in Book 2432, at
          Page 66. (affects Parcel 5)

NOTE: The following names have been checked for judgments:
The Paul and Jean Hinckley Rennie Family Trust dated the 17th day of November, 2022 and The Jean F.
Hinckley Trust, dated May 18, 2015


No unsatisfied judgments appear of record in the last eight years except as shown herein.




Real Property Title Report                                                                                  Page 3 of 4
                                                                                     File Number: 187165-RCF

                                                  EXHIBIT A
                                            LEGAL DESCRIPTION

PARCEL 1:

Beginning at a point that lies North 44°52'11" East a distance of 1349.03 feet from the (calculated) West One
Quarter corner of Section 11, Township 2 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, said point lies North
05°58'30" West along the monument line a distance of 297.62 feet, and North 77°45'00" East a distance of 268.97
feet from a Street monument located at the intersection of Floribunda Drive & Wander Lane, Thence South
77°45'00" West a distance of 112.65 feet, Thence North 05°56'00" West a distance of 159.87 feet, Thence North
87°45'00" East a distance of 100.00 feet, Thence North 87°43'31" East a distance of 12.19 feet, Thence South
05°56'00" East a distance of 140.27 feet to the point of beginning.

PARCEL 2:

Beginning at a point that lies North 44°52'11" East a distance of 1349.03 feet from the (calculated) West One
Quarter corner of Section 11, Township 2 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, said point lies North
05°58'30" West along the monument line a distance of 297.62 feet, and North 77°45'00" East a distance of 268.97
feet from a Street monument located at the intersection of Floribunda Drive & Wander Lane, Thence North
05°56'00" West a distance of 140.27 feet, Thence North 87°43'31" East a distance of 177.55 feet, Thence South
07°21'00" West a distance of 151.81 feet, Thence North 68°40'00" West a distance of 50.00 feet, Thence South
87°45'00" West a distance of 38.52 feet, Thence South 77°45'00" West a distance of 59.79 feet to the point of
beginning.

PARCEL 3:

Commencing North 41°40' East 1054.4 feet from the Southwest corner of the Northwest 1/4 of Section 11,
Township 2 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian; Thence North 87°45' East 202.44 feet to the true
point of beginning; Thence North 5°56' West 148.02 feet; Thence North 77°45' East 86.22 feet; Thence South
5°56' East 163.52 feet; Thence South 87°45' West 85.0 feet to the point of beginning.

PARCEL 4:

Commencing North 41°40' East 1054.4 feet from the Southwest corner of the Northwest 1/4 of Section 11,
Township 2 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, Thence North 16.04 feet, Thence East 407.48
feet to the true point of beginning, Thence North 5°56' West 150 feet, Thence North 68°40' West 50.0 feet,
Thence South 87°45' West 38.52 feet, Thence South 77°45' West 37.54 feet, Thence South 5°56' East 163.52
feet, Thence North 87°45' East 120.0 feet to the point of beginning.

PARCEL 5:

A non-exclusive right-of-way, appurtenant to Parcels 2, 3 and 4, for purposes of access, ingress and egress, as
defined and disclosed in that certain Grant of Right-of-Way recorded March 5, 1996 as Entry No. 6295035 in Book
7344 at Page 781 in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.




Real Property Title Report                                                                             Page 4 of 4
                         MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                          PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                     Tuesday, July 15, 2025
                                            6:00 PM
                                     City Council Chambers
                                      4580 South 2300 East
                                         Holladay, Utah

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                          City Staff:
Dennis Roach, Chair                                   Carrie Marsh, City Planner
Karianne Prince                                       Jonathan Teerlink, Community & Economic
Angela Gong                                                  Development Director
Jill Fonte                                            Brad Christopherson, Legal Counsel

WORK SESSION
Chair Roach called the Work Session to order at 5:30 PM.

The agenda items were reviewed and discussed.

The first agenda item was the Russell Corner Subdivision Preliminary Plan and Plat. City Planner,
Carrie Marsh, reported that the lot is greater than 16,000 square feet in size in the R1-8 Zone,
where the minimum lot size is 8,000 square feet. The frontage dimensions were met by the two
lots. There is a dedication area on Russell Street that is within the property area where there is a
sidewalk requirement. In response to a question raised, Ms. Marsh stated that there is existing
sidewalk on the Russell Circle side but not on Russell Street.

The second, third, and fourth agenda items were identified as the Hinckley Estates Subdivision.
Ms. Marsh stated that each item will require its own public hearing. The first public hearing is to
establish the legal number of units or lots on the property based on the zone requirements. Once
the fire access was removed from the total land area, there is enough property to accommodate six
units. The Commission’s decision should be based on whether the request meets the legal
requirements of the zone. There will likely be public comment from a neighbor about the
easement, as it is a private road. The easement currently provides access for two parcels.

In response to a question raised, Ms. Marsh reported that there is one home on the road and a parcel
related to that dwelling. There is another parcel in the corner on the east side of the road that is
owned by Christian Hansen. The applicant’s property is on the west side of the private road. The
current lot configuration is to be stacked one in front of another. Two houses will be able to be
accessed directly from the private road instead of having to install a long driveway back and
providing access from the north side. There is a new home on the west side of Sleepy Hollow
Drive and a second house that is owned by Jean Hinckley, who owns the family property. The
parcels they are reconfiguring are related to that house. Because they are related parcels, it is not
buildable legal property. It was clarified that the easement allows for a total of four homes, which
will remain with an easement. Access issues were discussed. It was noted that one home has

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                 1
access currently, but is being moved off that site. The existing easement will provide access to
four lots. The easement access will establish and limit the number of units. It was noted, however,
that easements can be modified if all parties are in agreement.

Ms. Marsh explained that the second public hearing will be for the Planned Unit Development
(“PUD”) element. PUDs are Conditional Use Permits (“CUP”), so generally, conditions are
imposed to mitigate potential impacts. Potential impacts could pertain to privacy. The
Commission could consider potential mitigations and conditions that could be imposed based on
the comments received. With regard to the third public hearing, if conditions are imposed within
the PUD, if approved, that is where the conditions will be applied to a subdivision plat. The third
motion will create a subdivision that incorporates the PUD elements.

A question was raised about how the PUD element is related to the easement. Ms. Marsh explained
that in this case, the issue is that they are taking their access and placing it on their property. They
have worked out easement access outside of their property with the property owner. Based on the
existing easement, the two new lots that are to be created, which are legal buildable lots, will still
have access through the easement. The concept plan shows that it is shortened. Instead of the two
lots having the full length of the private road access, it will be converted to be entirely on their
property. To accomplish this, they will create an additional 20-foot-wide road inside their
property.

In response to a question, Ms. Marsh stated that the hatched area will be 20 feet wide, which is the
minimum required for fire access. As a result, there can be no parking in that area. Driveway
areas will be provided for parking. She explained that with private roads and easements, it is
important to ensure that there is access for the dwelling units being created. In this case, the
neighbors agreed that the easement already exists and they will maintain it. The property owner
doing the PUD will improve the lane and have it asphalted and improved for fire access. The Fire
Marshall reviewed the plan and determined that the proposed configuration meets all fire access
requirements.

Ms. Marsh explained the reason for the PUD in the area rather than standard zoning. The
applicants wanted to create a lot that does not meet the 80-foot width requirement. What is
proposed is a preference, but it creates some restrictions. With standard lots, they will be able to
have accessory structures that are four to six feet from the property lines. Their building area will
also be much larger than what they are restricting themselves to. She commented that the
applicants are increasing the amount of green space and limiting their building space. Options
available to the applicants were discussed. It was confirmed that the PUD proposal does not
increase or decrease setbacks from what would be applicable if they were to move the lot lines.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jonathan Teerlink, presented the Royal
Holladay Hills Redevelopment and stated that there are two site plans on different blocks from the
site. Block C is a Site Plan Amendment Subdivision Amendment where a new retail pad is being
added for a retail center that complies with the Site Development Master Plan (“SDMP”). The
Commission will review site plan elements for the parking, landscaping, and architecture. The
second site plan, Item 7, is an amendment. The Commission reviewed and approved Block K,
which is the easternmost side up against Memory Lane that has both single-family homes and what
was previously approved as multi-family. The applicant is now revising the plan to eliminate

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                   2
multi-family complex buildings and replace them with townhomes. The unit count will be reduced
from 100 to 93. All else will remain the same, other than the architectural style.

Agenda Item 6 is a text amendment where the Commission will make a recommendation to the
City Council. The SDMP requires clarity with regard to parking within the document, specifically
as it relates to the uppermost northwest corner at Murray Holladay Road and Highland Drive.
There is a large portion of Block A that is designated as surface parking. In the concept plan, the
applicant is proposing retail buildings on the corner. The parking element limits development
there to surface parking only. What is proposed is an amendment to the SDMP to exclude parking
for 30 to 40 percent of Block A so that the rest of it can be both parking and commercial building
lots.

Mr. Teerlink explained that the SDMP includes locations for project signage around the perimeter
of the site along Murray Holladay Road and Highland Drive. There is an entrance to the site on
Murray Holladay Road where they would like to place a monument sign. It is not included in the
SDMP, and the applicants are asking that it be added back in.

CONVENE REGULAR MEETING – Public Welcome and Opening Statement by
Commission Chair.
Chair Roach called the Regular Meeting to order at approximately 6:00 PM. It was noted that
because there were only four Commission Members present, all votes would need to be unanimous
in order to pass. Commissioner Fonte read the Commission Statement.

PUBLIC HEARING
1.     “Russell Corner” Subdivision – Preliminary Plan/Plat - 4585 South Russell Street.
       (R-1-8) Preliminary level review and consideration of development details by
       Applicant Mark Snow. Review of this .38-acre (16,552 sq. ft) development is
       conducted according to residential subdivision development standards according to
       Holladay Ordinance §13.10A. File #25-1-09.
City Planner, Carrie Marsh, presented the Staff Report and stated that the Russell Corner
Subdivision is a two-lot subdivision located on the corner of Russell Street and Russell Circle in
the R-1-8 zone. The R-1-8 Zone requires an 8,000-square-foot minimum lot size. The property
in question is over 16,000 square feet in size and dividing it into two still meets the minimum
requirement. There is an area on Russell Street that would need to be dedicated to the public right-
of-way. Sidewalk improvements will be required as part of the subdivision. The sidewalk will
carry through on Russell Street and around the corner and incorporate an Americans with
Disabilities Act (“ADA”) ramp at that corner. One lot will face Russell Circle and the other onto
Russell Street. Both lots are accessible from public roadways and all fire requirements have been
met. Utility letters have all been submitted with water approvals from Holliday Water, power
approval from Rocky Mountain Power, sewer approval from Mount Olympus, and gas approval
from Enbridge. The City Engineer has reviewed and approved all engineering details.

The applicant, Mark Snow, was present to answer questions. He confirmed that there is just one
home on the lot to be subdivided.

Chair Roach opened the public hearing.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                 3
Robyn Bechthold gave her address as 4572 South Russell Street and questioned whether the height
and setback restrictions will be met. She also asked if the homes would be designed to fit into the
neighborhood. She stated that the proposal calls for two single-family homes; however, she was
concerned with the neighborhood being inundated with Airbnbs. Her understanding was that that
was something the City was working to control.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Mr. Snow confirmed that they have met all setbacks and stated that the legal height requirement is
set by the City of Holladay. They are proposing traditional homes.

With regard to Airbnbs, Ms. Marsh stated that the Code for short-term rentals requires them to be
located in an R-2 or R-M Zone. A second requirement is that they be located on a street that is 60
feet wide or wider. Most neighborhood streets in the City are 50 feet wide. A third requirement
is that it go to the Planning Commission for a CUP. The City has a record of CUPs for short-term
rentals with there currently being three in the City.

Commissioner Gong felt that the request seemed reasonable. The lot sizes comply with the zone,
and the property is accessible. It seemed to her that allowing two homes on the proposed lots
would be in keeping with the character of the area. Chair Roach agreed and liked the idea of
getting a sidewalk. The downside was losing some of the tree canopy.

Commissioner Gong moved to APPROVE the Preliminary Plat Application by Mark Snow for
Russell Corner, a two-lot subdivision located at 4585 South Russell Street in the R-1-8 Zone
subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.       Development details required for a Preliminary and Final plat have been
               submitted and reviewed by the TRC.

       2.      Each of the lots comply with the minimum width and area for single-family home
               development in the R-1-8 zone.

       3.      The development complies with the General Plan designation of Low Density
               Residential – Stable.

       4.      Fire access is existing, labeled, and approved by the UFA.

       5.      Vehicular access through public roads, utility easements, and right-of-way
               improvements has been provided.

       6.      Within one year, in accordance with 113.10A.070, the final plat approval shall
               be completed by the Community and Economic Development Director following
               a positive recommendation from the TRC.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                4
Commissioner Prince seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Fonte-Yes,
Commissioner Prince-Yes, Commissioner Gong-Yes, Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

The Commission took a short break.

2.      “Hinckley Estates” Residential Subdivision – Concept Plan – 4880 South, 4888 South,
        4890 South Floribunda Drive and 2830 East Sleepy Hollow Drive (R-1-10).
        Conceptual review and consideration of a residential site plan proposed by Applicant
        D. Rennie to subdivide 1.65 acres of land consisting of 6 lots within the R-1-10 Zone.
        Item reviewed as an Administrative Action for permitted uses in accordance to the
        zone and subdivision standards required by Holladay Ord §13.10A. File #25-1-07.
Ms. Marsh presented the Staff Report and stated that the project has been before the Planning
Commission before. The applicant is applying for a Planned Unit Development (“PUD”)
subdivision. A concept subdivision layout was presented with R-1-10 zone standards. The project
involves four different parcels located at 4880, 4888, and 4890 South Floribunda and 2830 East
Sleepy Hollow Drive. The properties are all owned by the same family. Two parcels are related
and are not legal, buildable parcels. In an effort to create legal, purchasable property, the applicant
has begun the subdivision process and opted for the subdivision to be a PUD. The first step in the
concept subdivision is to review the legal requirements under the R-1-10 zone, which requires a
10,000-square-foot minimum lot size, and an 80-foot wide lot with a 60-foot wide street frontage.
The layout includes six lots that each exceed 10,000 square feet. All have fire access and the
required frontage and lot width. The allowed number of units was established based on that and
after taking out fire access, six units would be allowed within the PUD project area. The applicant
is requesting four lots.

Ms. Marsh reported that the property is accessed through a private road with existing access
easements. The existing easement allows calls out four parcels specifically and includes the
original property owner, Ms. Hinckley on the far northwest side, the property owner on the
northeast side, and the two parcels that are related. All are designated in the existing easement.

The applicant, Christian Rennie was present with his wife Dee. Mr. Rennie stated that they were
given three items to address including the road access, fire access, and tree canopy. They are
legally entitled to six lots in the subdivision, which differs from what they are proposing. Dee
Rennie stated that according to the R-1-10 zone requirement and setback, their total site is 71,642
square feet, which could potentially turn into seven lots; however, due to private road access, they
were able to subdivide into a total of six lots. The intent is to maximize lots without considering
existing or mature trees or green space. The study was intended to show the significant savings
and consideration put into the beauty of the property. They kept as much green space as possible
to help support natural habitats in the area.

Commissioner Gong asked about the street configuration on the property. Ms. Marsh explained
that the Easement Agreement will have to change to allow three lots that would be accessed from
outside. There is a possibility that one of those could be accessed through Sleepy Hollow. All of
the access easements will have to be worked out to approve six lots.

Chair Roach opened the public hearing.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                  5
Christian Hansen gave his address as 4867 South Floribunda Drive. He referred to the right-of-
way and stated that the right-of-way shall be terminated and all rights extinguished to all benefiting
parties if any of the benefiting properties are subdivided, amended, or altered for any development.
His understanding is that this is why the applicants are limited to four lots. If they were to pursue
six lots, Mr. Hansen would no longer have access to his home.

Dave Dellenbaugh gave his 4915 South Floribunda Drive and assumed that the six-lot graphic is
academic since no one present supports six lots and that is not proposed. Six lots would be opposed
by everyone on the street.

Cindy Gubler gave her address as 2865 South Floribunda Drive. She has been a neighbor to the
Hinckleys for 22 years and has known them for 55 years. She felt they have a right to develop
their property, she just wants to ensure that it is done right.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Mr. Rennie confirmed that although they could legally develop six lots, they are only seeking four.

In response to a question raised by Commission Prince, Ms. Marsh explained that the PUD process
includes establishing the legal number of dwelling units, which is determined by how many lots
meet the minimum requirements can fit on the property. That must be done as part of a PUD
process. PUDs allow the flexibility to move the total number of units around in different
configurations depending on the features of the property. The applicant can choose to develop
fewer units than are allowed. In this case, the PUD concept is for four units. In order to change
that to six units, they would need to amend their application and concept plan. Before the
Commission is an application for four units as part of a PUD. To change that in the future would
require the applicants to come back to the Planning Commission and hold a neighborhood meeting
and a public hearing.

Commissioner Prince moved to APPROVE the Conceptual Subdivision for Hinckley Estates, a
six-lot residential subdivision in the R-1-10 zone located at 4888, 4890, 4880 South Floribunda
Drive and 2830 East Sleepy Hollow Drive subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.       The development complies with the R-1-10 zone standards.
      2.       Utility letters have been provided.
      3.       Fire access requirements are met.

Conditions:
       1.      A Preliminary plat is submitted and reviewed by the Planning Commission.
       2.      Any proposed PUD details the location of open space and preserved trees.
       3.      Final easement details and alignments to be included on the plat.
       4.      Fire access roads shall be improved to a material to hold 24 tons; no parking
               signage is required within the required fire access areas.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                  6
Commissioner Fonte seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Gong-Yes,
Commissioner Prince-Yes, Commissioner Fonte-Yes, Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

3.      “Hinckley Estates” – Planned Unit Development Conditional Use Permit – 4880
        South, 4888 South, 4890 South Floribunda Drive and 2830 East Sleepy Hollow Drive.
        (R-1-10). Review and consideration of a request by Applicant D. Rennie for a
        subdivision consisting of 1.65 acres of land as a Planned Unit Development. Item
        reviewed as an administrative application as per provisions stated in Holladay
        Ordinance §13.08.040. File #25-1-07.
Ms. Marsh presented the Staff Report and stated that for this approval, the elements can be changed
from the standard six-lot layout with standard setbacks and lot sizes. The applicant has proposed
to develop four dwelling units. Typically, a smaller home would be developed on a 10,000-square-
foot lot as it would be restricted by the size of the property. With the proposed layout, they will
have a larger area for building space that has been consolidated into a couple of areas for the two
new houses and allowed additional space for the existing homes. The one on the northeast side
has a deck with a building area around a deck that already exists on the property. There is an
existing shed in the far corner as well that has been incorporated into the building area. The intent
is to encapsulate things that exist and allow space to expand the existing older home.

Ms. Marsh reported that the building areas are consolidated and the applicants have detailed in the
PUD what the total coverage is. She recalled that it is around 37% in an R-1-10 zone where the
maximum coverage is 35%. The structures will not cover the fully identified building area. What
is likely to be built will be under the total coverage that would be allowed in a 10,000 square foot
lot. There are slopes and mature trees that the applicants have worked around and they provided
a plan that shows the tree removals that are affected by building areas. Some are too close to
building areas and could be impacted. Some of the trees may be able to remain if a home is
designed to work around the existing trees. It is, however, safer to call them out as removals. For
the most part, those building areas are in the more open areas on the property.

The applicant identified trees that will be impacted by the building areas. The four units have fire
access with a 40-foot wide road and adequate radius for a fire turnaround. The hatched areas
shown are no parking and no access to meet the standard setbacks. The other perimeter setback is
on the northeast side, which was in line with the existing accessory structure. They delineated
between a primary building setback and an accessory building setback. An accessory building
setback would have a four-foot setback while a primary building would have an eight-foot setback,
which is standard with a 10,000-square-foot lot that is 80-feet wide. All of the other setbacks are
interior. The building lots are more traditional and slightly larger. The applicants will still be
required to meet height requirements based on the lot size. With regard to graduated height,
Ms. Marsh stated that it is not modified by a PUD. When a structure is built, the closer it is to a
property line, the shorter it has to be. Ms. Marsh reported that when a structure is moved eight
feet from the property line and adds the additional eight feet for the 45° angle, the intersection
point is 16 feet. The result is a tiered effect that is designed to push taller structures away from
property lines.

Ms. Marsh explained that the front setbacks are 30 feet for the second structure. The first structure
must be 20 feet from the property line. Chair Roach asked about the setback on Lot 4. Ms. Marsh

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                 7
explained that the south property line, which is a side property line, is eight feet. It backs backyards
that have much larger setbacks. That is the result on any corner when a side yard is next to a rear
yard. Chair Roach questioned how the existing trees can survive with an eight-foot setback.
Ms. March stated that consideration could be given to allowing an average of eight feet. The
closest point would then be eight feet and potentially provide space for some trees there. The
ability to allow for setbacks to be averages would be detailed on the plat. Ms. Marsh explained
that the City of Holladay allows for averaging with setbacks, which allows an applicant to move
setbacks 15% closer but it must be averaged out elsewhere to meet the overall average. The
averaging is designed to create buildings and structures that do not have just a flat face and allows
for more variation such as window pop-outs. The result is building variation and better
architectural design.

Ms. Marsh referenced the PUD elements set forth in the Staff Report and stated that those shown
in bold were taken from the Code on PUDs. With regard to compatibility, this area has been zoned
R-1-10 by Salt Lake County. The Floribunda Subdivision, which was created in 1950, included
lots that were larger than the minimum required at that time. That was the choice of the developer
based on their own parcel. The result was that the lots ended up being larger than legally required.
Other subdivisions in the area were identified. Ms. Marsh noted that the Floribunda Heights
Subdivision is an outlier in the overall context of the area. This often occurs when large properties
are held by families for a long time and then divided. When there are larger pieces of land that are
developed by a developer, the result is typically a more standardized minimum lot size.

Ms. Marsh stated that with the CUP, the Commission can assess the impacts of privacy and how
a setback can affect a neighboring property on the perimeters of a subdivision. They can also
consider how to mitigate those impacts by potentially placing requirements within the PUD
element. Mitigations could include increased trees, vegetation, and fencing on the perimeter.

Mr. Rennie wished to address the topics brought up at the last meeting, which included road and
fire access and preserving the trees. These were concerns that were addressed and to be resolved
before granting approval. With regard to road and fire access, after considering different options
and proposals, one of the options was to have a separate road and fire access. This was decided
upon to prevent the need to cross the neighbor’s property. The applicants plan to provide their
own road access that meets all fire access requirements for the lots and the current layout was
accepted by the Fire Marshall. With regard to the tree canopy, there will be a Tree Protection Zone
(“TPZ”) protection around the Mulberry tree, the Oak tree, and others as necessary during
construction. After careful study of the subdivision, they currently have approximately 13,902
square feet of canopy space and they will be removing around 1,023 square feet, which is roughly
7% of the total canopy. The trees along the southern lot that are connected to the neighbors can
be preserved or replanted for privacy as well.

Mr. Rennie explained that when they presented the lot configuration to the City, the suggestion
from staff was to create a subdivision in conjunction with a PUD, which allows for flexibility in
building areas while preserving existing greenery, mature trees, and open space. The specifics of
two different graphics were discussed. The crosshatched area showed the preservation area. It
was clarified that areas outside of the building areas are considered open space because they cannot
be developed. The areas shown in yellow are the building areas. Common spaces were also
delineated.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                   8
Chair Roach opened the public hearing.

Jane Hinckley gave her address as 4880 South Floribunda Drive. She provided a history of the
property, which is dear to her. Her father purchased four acres of land from Christian Pedersen,
who lived on Casto Lane in the early 1930s. Her family lived in Chile until 1944, so her
grandfather and uncles planted and watered many of the trees. They still have Sycamore, Maple,
Ash, Mulberry, and Scotch Pines in her backyard from the original trees. They built their Holladay
home in 1949. Her brother built his home, which is now owned by Christian Hansen, in the early
1960s, and her father built Ms. Hinckley’s home in 1964. The children of herself and her brother
had an amazing childhood and her father taught Ms. Hinckley’s sons how to work hard. She now
owns about 1¼ acres of the original four acres with her home and the two lots. She was grateful
to have a grandson who is able and desires to continue this family heritage. His parents built the
home on Sleepy Hollow after a 20-year wait. She looked forward to having family traditions
carried on. Dee and Christian have allowed her to stay in her home as long as she is able and no
development will take place while she is still alive.

Cindy Gubler gave her address as 2865 Floribunda Drive and expressed her love for the Hinckley
Family and the area. She was, however, concerned as to whether a PUD is the right choice. She
wondered if something similar could be accomplished without a PUD. She commented that every
home on Wander Lane to Floribunda Drive has mature trees and shrubs, which creates a feeling
of seclusion. She did not want to jeopardize that. She provided a photo of the south corridor near
her home. What she sees out her window resembles a forest canopy. She was concerned that a
large number of trees will be removed and those that remain will have a diminished chance for
survival. She asked that the Hinckleys push the homes out further and eliminate the pocket park
and have a larger side setback or put a Tree Protection Plan in place. She also asked that they be
held accountable for any damage to her trees. Ms. Gubler loves her property, which is surrounded
by trees and she considered it a tragedy to potentially lose that. She values the City’s tree canopy
and hopes it will be maintained.

Rob Nydegger gave his address as 2870 East Floribunda Drive and stated that he is a fan of the
Hinckley Family. He has a handwritten copy of Ms. Hinckley’s history in his files with the
covenants. He purchased a property that was subdivided and was unsure how that happened
because it was not compatible with the covenants. When he recombined the properties, his
neighbors thanked him for preserving the history and character of Floribunda Drive. Although the
applicant is not subject to them, it distressed him that the setbacks were not consistent with those
covenants.

Christian Hansen gave his address as 4867 South Floribunda Drive. He and his wife have lived
in their home for seven years and they purchased it for the privacy. It is surrounded by trees. In
the summer they cannot see their neighbors. He supports planned development that fits the
character of the neighborhood and respects the Holladay City Code. He noted that the City
Planners explained that their legal role is to assist the applicant with the law, so in that way they
are the applicant’s advocate. He asked who his family’s advocate is. They were told that the Code
is their advocate. Ms. Marsh mentioned that six lots will be allowed in the R-1-10 zone, but he
believed a more accurate comparison would be four lots because the easement does not allow six.
In addition, the lots will be one-half acre in size, not 10,000 square feet, and he believed a four-

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                 9
foot setback was too small. They were told that driveway access needs to be five feet from the
property’s corner, and it looked like the driveway was at the corner of his property.

Mr. Hansen’s main concern was the inconsistency in setbacks as the PUD proposed a 10-foot
setback between the homes, eight feet on the southern property line, and four feet on the shared
property line. He asked why shared property lines with neighbors who are not in the PUD were
not at least the same or better than those within the PUD in order to respect the character of the R-
1-10 neighborhood. It is not a high-density area, but rather a private lane with 0.50-acre lots.
Larger setbacks provide more area for trees and most mature trees in the neighborhood are on
property boundaries. The City Code specifies that the Planning Commission must decide whether
the size, shape, and placement of homes in a PUD fits the character of the surrounding area and
does not negatively affect adjacent properties, however, four- and eight-foot setbacks are not
typical for Floribunda Drive and the homes are centered on the 0.50-acre lots. The layout will
affect spacing, privacy, light, and shade of nearby homes. He believes those are reasonable
concerns under City Code. He also asked that the Planning Commission require legal verification
that his right-of-way will remain valid if a PUD is approved. He does not believe a PUD will
protect against future subdivision as had been asserted.

Mr. Hansen was not opposed to development but he believed it was worth asking if the proposed
PUD really fit the purpose of the Code and neighborhood, or if it only benefited the applicant.
City Code states that a PUD must be better for the community than standard zoning. He
encouraged the Planning Commission to look carefully at access, setbacks, building and driveway
placement, and tree preservation, and that they postpone the final decision until construction plans
are submitted. No construction has been proposed and it is difficult to analyze how the Code will
apply to something that has not yet been proposed.

Dave Dellenbach gave his address as 4915 South Floribunda Drive and thanked Ms. Hinckley for
detailing the property’s history. He asked that the Civil Plans be displayed and if they were
included in the packet. Ms. Marsh confirmed that the addendum posted to the website on Monday,
July 14, 2025, and included the updated Civil Plans and additional citizen comments.

Matt Pearson gave his address as 2841 East Floribunda Drive and stated that his home is on the
south side of the proposed PUD. He and Ms. Hinckley were previously in negotiations for the sale
of the 65-foot south parcel. The Planning Department indicated that he could not build on that
parcel, so he then asked that the parcel be increased to 80 feet. He ultimately did not purchase the
property. He believes an 80-foot lot would solve many of the neighbors’ concerns, as a 65-foot
lot does not fit the area. It is approximately 42% of the average lot width on the private road, 52%
of the average lot width in the subdivision, and 19% narrower than lots to the east on Wander
Lane. He was unsure if there was a way to keep the trees on a 65-foot lot. He believes that more
neighbors would be amenable to the project if the lots were larger and that there was no cause to
approve a PUD when the underlying zoning was sufficient. Because the adjoining lots to the north
have the same owner, they could move the project to the north and do lot line adjustments to gain
the extra space needed.

Paul Rennie gave his address as 2830 East Sleepy Hollow Drive and identified himself as
Ms. Hinckley’s son-in-law and Christian Rennie’s father. He believed they were there because
Mr. Pearson wants an 80-foot-wide lot on the southern part of Ms. Hinckley’s property. People

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                 10
were concerned about the PUD but that solution was suggested by the City. He understood
concerns about beauty, views, and privacy, and the neighborhood had Ms. Hinckley to thank for
that. She spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to make the land beautiful for her neighbors, who
now do not want her grandchild to go through with the PUD suggested by the City. He thanked
the Planning Commission and City Planners for working through the process. The applicant had
met every requirement. The City of Holladay is a wonderful place to live and his son and his wife
want to raise their family here. He believed the City was very wise in its planning and asked that
the application be approved. They had heard a lot about lot sizes but the lots in the proposed PUD
are larger than the lots at the top of Sleepy Hollow Drive.

Amy Dellenbach gave her address as 4915 South Floribunda Drive and reported that she also owns
the vacant lot with right-of-way access. She has lived in her home for over 20 years and she
thanked Ms. Hinckley for preserving her land. She was happy that it was going to Ms. Hinckley’s
grandchildren. They like the Rennie family and will be happy to have them as neighbors. She
hoped to see them continue Ms. Hinckley’s stewardship of the land.

Andi Pearson gave her address as 2841 East Floribunda Drive and commented that she was raised
in the City of Holladay and loves the Floribunda neighborhood. One highlight of the neighborhood
is that every property is 0.5-acre in size. She was grateful to have that space for her children to
grow up in. She expressed concern about the amount of land that is disturbed to dig foundations
as she did not believe the trees near her fence line can be preserved with an eight-foot setback.
She would love to preserve the trees and the lot size along the private lane.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Ms. Rennie stated that the Engineer left the street location as-is because of the need for access to
existing utilities. The turn shown on the PUD Site Plan in the Staff Report would be required if
the road was extended, but it will not be needed. Ms. Marsh added that the existing road location
is shown on the Civil Plans included in the addendum and the location could shift based on
negotiations with the owner of the property where the road is located. The fire access works in
the current location and would shift with the road if it were moved.

Chair Roach referred to the comments regarding the narrow southern lot and clarified that the
setbacks would be the same with an 80-foot lot. A PUD allows the buildable space to be moved
forward to preserve trees and an 80-foot lot would require the removal of more trees than proposed
in the PUD. Ms. Rennie stated that they will try to preserve trees to create privacy for the southern
neighbor. If trees are removed during construction, they plan to replant them. Their attorney
confirmed that the property is not part of the Floribunda Subdivision. Mr. Rennie added that they
will do everything they can to preserve the property and the PUD allows for additional greenspace
and preservation of trees. They want to preserve the beauty of the City of Holladay.

In response to a question raised by Chair Roach, Ms. Marsh confirmed that the southern setback
will be an eight-foot hardline, but the average setback will be 10 feet. Some parts of a structure
may be at the eight-foot line, but others must be set back at 12 feet to create the 10-foot average.
Mr. Rennie had no concerns about meeting that requirement.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                 11
Commissioner Gong stated that what is required in the R-1-10 Zone is 20 feet from the right-of-
way line and the proposal is 20 feet from the center line. The required rear setback is 22 feet and
the proposal is for a 55-foot setback. In response to her question about common areas, it was
clarified that they will be common to the PUD but not the surrounding neighborhood. No fencing
was proposed.

Commissioner Fonte recognized that the neighbors are concerned about privacy. She assumed
that the applicant was concerned about preserving the integrity of the neighborhood. Mr. Rennie
believed their commitment was evident in their research regarding the canopy space, as well as
their dedication to carrying on the family history of the lots and preserving the greenspace. He
lived in his grandmother’s home for three years as a child and enjoyed the privacy and community.
They intend to do everything in their power to preserve it. Whether it is developed through a PUD
or current zoning, the land will be developed and they firmly believed that the PUD will allow
them to preserve more trees and green space.

In response to a question from Commissioner Prince, Ms. Marsh clarified that a 10,000-square-
foot or larger lot would allow a four-foot setback for accessory buildings in the R-1-10 zone. On
an 80-foot lot, the 10% minimum side setback would be eight feet. A 10,000-square-foot lot could
be created between Ms. Hinckley’s home and the Rennie home with those setbacks. While the
existing lot is larger, they could move the lot lines and create a smaller lot.

Chair Roach was a staunch supporter of trees and loves the City of Holladay. He encouraged
everyone to attend Holladay City Tree Committee Meetings and plant trees in their yards because
that is what makes the City of Holladay great. However, legal property rights and the future big
picture for the City must be weighed, and in doing so, they must consider the short-term pain for
the long-term gain. The proposed private urban development will provide a healthy amount of
open space. If someone purchased the four properties, they could build six homes with a private
driveway and no trees under the current zoning. He believes the PUD would preserve the open
space. There could be short-term pain in the process but much of what makes the community great
will be preserved.

Commissioner Gong asserted the integrity of City Staff and stated that the same Code that protects
everyone is applied equally. Staff working to find a solution for a homeowner is not the same as
bending the law, which she believes was implied in the public comments.

City Attorney, Brad Christopherson, reported that City Staff helps process applications and they
do so in the same way regardless of who is applying. One of the main functions of a city is to
create Land Use Ordinances so that when development occurs, it does so in an orderly way,
preserves property rights, and mitigates potential impacts. It does not and was not intended to
mitigate those impacts. All homes in the City of Holladay have gone through the subdivision
process at some point. It is not a question of Staff advocating on behalf of a particular applicant.

With regard to the citizen who requested that legal research be conducted to ensure that one
particular property owner’s easement will remain in force, Mr. Christopherson clarified that the
City does not consider private easements, as its job is not to enforce or manage private easements.
The applicant appeared to have considered that easement. It is City Staff’s job to ensure that City
Code is complied with. They provide options but do not advocate for a particular outcome.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                12
Mr. Christopherson also addressed CUPs and reported that approval is not conditional. If there
are Reasonably Anticipated Detrimental Effects (“RADEs”) that are identified through the
planning process, the Planning Commission has the authority to impose reasonable mitigating
conditions to address those specifically identified RADEs. Utah State Code allows that restriction
to reduce impacts but not eliminate them. During any construction process, there will be dust,
traffic, tradesmen, etc. Those are not RADEs. RADEs are the long-term, permanent impacts that
can be mitigated with things like fencing or additional trees to maintain privacy.

Property owners have property rights. Often when notices are posted about development occurring
on a neighboring property, residents believe that a large turnout at the meeting can prevent the
development. That is not the case. The City wants the public to be involved in the process and
engage with the Planning Commission but the Planning Commission does not have wide authority
to prevent development. They have the narrow authority to approve with conditions. Previously,
the Planning Commission or City Council did not have to grant CUPs, but the law changed. The
Utah State Legislature is very pro-development and recognizes that the State has housing
constraints and is landlocked. As a result, infill development is the only option. The Planning
Commission only has the ability to impose additional mitigating conditions within reasonable
limits.

Mr. Christopherson clarified that areas listed as “common” on the plat were Tree Canopy
Preservation Areas and the applicant would be limited in the amount of tree canopy removal that
could take place in those areas. The word “common” is used to denote how the space is owned
and maintained by the Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions (“CC&Rs”).

Mr. Christopherson reported that denotations may be missing from the Civil Plans for the northern
lot and asked Staff to follow up on that item. In response to a question from Chair Roach, he stated
that the information was required to establish the building pads and common area for each lot and
will be required for the Subdivision Plat as well. The item could be continued, or a Condition of
Approval could be added to the motion to extend the common area to include the rest of the
northeast lot if that was the applicant’s intent. The applicant clarified that the white area shown
around the existing home on the northeast lot should be part of the preserved common area. Chair
Roach stated that any motion should specify that all green and white delineated areas on the Civil
Plans are preserved as open space.

Commissioner Prince stated that the Commission had not discussed fencing as mitigation for the
privacy concern and asked about the fencing requirements for a PUD. Ms. Marsh stated that there
is no fencing requirement in a PUD. The standard fence height is six feet. Fences of up to eight
feet in height are allowed adjacent to private roads as well as along property lines if there is a
signed agreement between all parties. Fencing Permits are required. Chair Roach noted that no
members of the public requested fencing.

Commissioner Prince believed the Rennie Family was more motivated than the average developer
to preserve the property and asked if best practices could be required for tree preservation.
Ms. Marsh responded that the Tree Preservation Standards were detailed on the PUD Site Plan.
In response to a question from Chair Roach, it was clarified that a condition could be added to


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                13
include International Society of Arboriculture (“ISA”) standards, which are stricter and intended
to help trees survive construction.

Chair Roach moved to APPROVE the Planned Unit Development for “Hinckley Estates”, a
residential four-unit development within the R-1-10 zone located at 4888 South Floribunda
Drive and adjacent properties as included in the application, subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.       Is consistent with the future Land Use map.

       2.      Complies with the allowed land uses of R-1-10 zone as a single-family residential
               subdivision.

       3.      The proposed density of four units is within the allowed density of seven units.

       4.      Is granted flexibility to zone standards via the Planning Commission.

       5.      Meets the purpose statement for a Planned Unit Development.

       6.      Is compatible with the character of the site, adjacent properties, and development
               in the vicinity of the site.

       7.      Stabilizes and preserves existing residential uses.

       8.      Provides for the preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics.

       9.      Preserves existing structures, though no historical or architectural significance
               is identified.

       10.     Maximizes and preserves vegetation as a buffer between adjacent properties and
               creates large areas of open space that provide passive and active recreation space
               for the residents of the PUD.

       11.     No significant traffic impacts or degradation of the service level on streets used
               to access the PUD from the addition of two dwelling units.

       12.     All adjacent uses are residential of similar intensity.

       13.     Required fire access improvements enhance safety for the PUD and neighboring
               properties.

Conditions:
       1.      Tree removal is only permitted in identified buildable areas and vehicular access
               areas (private lane and driveways), in addition to removals necessary for the
               installation of swimming pools or other recreational elements in the backyards
               of the two new dwelling units and the dwelling unit on Sleepy Hollow. Equivalent
               canopy replacement is required for any trees removed in these areas.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                14
       2.      A 10-foot average side setback is required on the Lot 4 south property line, with
               eight feet to the closest point.

       3.      Tree protection zones mentioned in the application must be held to ISA
               standards.

       4.      Civil Plan C-02 must become consistent with the PUD Site Plan for Lot 1, and all
               green and white areas must be designated as preservation zones and tree canopy
               protection zones.

Commissioner Prince seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Fonte-Yes,
Commissioner Prince-Yes, Commissioner Gong-Yes, Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

4.     “Hinckley Estates” Subdivision – Preliminary Plan/Plat – 4880 South, 4888 South,
       4890 South Floribunda Drive and 2830 East Sleepy Hollow Drive (R-1-10).
       Preliminary level review and consideration of development details by
       Application/Property Owner, D. Rennie. Review of this 1.65-acre (71,874 sq. ft)
       residential subdivision is conducted according to R-1-10 zone compliance and
       subdivision development submittal and review standards according to Holladay
       Ordinance §13.10A. File #25-1-07.
Ms. Marsh presented the Staff Report and stated that for this approval, the PUD elements would
be applied to the legal plat. The Technical Review Committee reviewed the Preliminary Plat and
determined it to be compliant with the R-1-10 zone. Utility connection Will-Serve letters had been
received. Stormwater and Erosion Control Plans had been or would be addressed with the City
Engineer. A Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (“SWPPP”) will be required prior to
construction. Civil Plans will be updated to reflect the PUD Site Plan and any outstanding civil
comments must be addressed prior to final approval. All buildable areas shown on the PUD Site
Plan were verified to be included on the Preliminary Plat.

Ms. Marsh reported that subdivision plats typically include lot lines and buildable areas, as well
as all relevant plat notes regarding easements, stormwater management for each lot, and other
technical aspects of ownership. Staff recommended approval of the Preliminary Plat with the
condition that all PUD elements be incorporated on the final plat.

In response to a question from Commissioner Gong, Ms. Marsh confirmed that stormwater fixtures
were not included on the Preliminary Plat as they will be managed during the Building Permit
stage.

Chair Roach opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Commissioner Prince moved to APPROVE the Preliminary Plat for “Hinckley Estates” a four-
unit residential Subdivision in the R-1-10 zone located at 4888, 4890, 4880 South Floribunda
Drive and 2830 East Sleepy Hollow Drive, subject to the following:


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                               15
Findings:
      1.       The development complies with the underlying zone.

       2.      Utility letters and a title report have been provided.

       3.      A grading and drainage plan has been provided and the plat notes that required
               onsite storm water retention will be addressed for each dwelling unit with their
               building permit application.

       4.      The property is not within a special hazards area and does not require additional
               geotechnical reporting.

       5.      Fire access requirements are met as shown in the PUD site plan; updates to the
               civil set to reflect what is shown on the PUD site plan – no fire access on any
               portion of parcel # 22111580160000 (4867 South Floribunda Drive).

       6.      Construction elements and details are found to be acceptable by various divisions
               of the Technical Review Committee.

       7.      PUD elements are found to be incorporated on the approved drawings.

Conditions:
       1.      Provide an updated civil plan that reflects accurate access.

               a.     All comments on the civil set of plans by the City Engineer shall be
                      addressed prior to final approval.

       2.      Final easement details and alignments to be detailed on the plat.

       3.      SWPP is required to be submitted prior to final or pre-construction, as required
               by the Assistant City Engineer.

       4.      A Dust Mitigation Plan is required prior to any construction, in a pre-
               construction meeting, as required by Assistant City Engineer.

       5.      Fire access roads shall be improved to a material to hold 24 tons; no parking
               signage is required within the required fire access areas.

“Also, within one year and in accordance with 13.10A.070.E, approval of the FINAL PLAT by
the Technical Review Committee.”

Commissioner Gong seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Fonte-Yes,
Commissioner Prince-Yes, Commissioner Gong-Yes, Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

The Commission took a short break.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                                16
       3.      Development details and all related components comply with the R-M/U zone &
               SDMP as a master planned project.

Conditions for Final Approval – within one year, according to Holladay Ord §13.10a, final civil
development drawings shall be submitted to and verified/approved by the Community and
Economic Development Director.

       1.      Work with the City’s Engineering Department to finalize all civil development
               details.

       2.      Work with Staff on all needful clarifications, grammatical and/or formatting
               changes to the final plat prior to recording approval.

       3.      Submittal of a vertical ownership component to the final plat showing separation
               and delineation of owned spaces within each building; i.e., common vs private.

Chair Roach seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Gong-Yes, Commissioner
Prince-Yes, Commissioner Fonte-Yes, Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

8.    Approval of Minutes – April 15, 2025.
Chair Roach moved to APPROVE the Meeting Minutes from April 15, 2025, as presented.
Commissioner Prince seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Gong-Yes,
Commissioner Prince-Yes, Commissioner Fonte-Yes, Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

ADJOURN
The next Planning Commission meeting was scheduled for August 5, 2025. Ms. Marsh reported
that no applications had been received, so that meeting may be cancelled. There would be a
meeting on August 19, 2025.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 8:43 PM.


I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held on Tuesday, July 15, 2025.



Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: AUGUST 19, 2025



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/15/2025

                                               23
                                          City of Holladay
                                      HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE: August 28th 2025
SUBJECT: Ordinance Amendment – Historic Sites Designation – “McDonald Home”4659 South Highland
Drive
SUBMITTED BY: Jonathan Teerlink, CED Director


ACTION:
Legislative. Ordinance amendments are to be reviewed and considered during a public hearing prior to a
motion of final decision/action as per procedures set for the Holladay Ord. §13.07.050.

SUMMARY:
Recent amendments to the Historic Designation
process have provided a path forward for owners to
add their property to Holladay’s list of Historic sites.
The proposed amendment, brought by the property
owner, would amend Title 13.86.020 of the City of
Holladay, Land Use and Development Regulations
after consideration of a proposal to add 4659 South
Highland Drive, aka “The David McDonald Home –
1913” to Holladay’s Historic Designation list.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE, CONSIDERATIONS:
The purpose of the code amendment is primarily implementing the General Plan’s vision to recognize
properties in the city with historical significance. Chapter 13.86 is enacted to allow property owners a
path to designate their property in an effort to preserve sites, structures, landmarks or buildings with
special historical, architectural or aesthetic value which are unique and irreplaceable assets.

The address proposed to added is currently listed on the National Register of Historic Places (#80003927,
1980), and in the General Plan as an exemplary Holladay historic site. The address is also recognized by
Preservation Utah.

Once a site is designated by the City Council, the property owner by apply to the planning commission for
additional, site specific approvals such as additional land uses and associated site modifications.
                                          City of Holladay
                                      HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
SUMMARY OF CHANGES:
The following is a summary of the proposed changes to Title 13:
    • Sec. 13.86.020 Historic Sites Designated, provides a
         register of historic sites, as currently designated.
    • The register is proposed to amended to include, 4659 S
         Highland Drive

SUMMARY OF HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE
The two-story Victorian house was constructed in 1890 or brick
and adobe manufactured on the site. It was built by David and Arabella McDonald, immigrants to Utah
from Scotland and Northern Ireland in 1869. In 1977 the house was renovated for use as office for Kent S.
Topham. See the online write up by realtor, Jacob Barlow

GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE:
Historical location and preservation goals are found Chapter 2; Land Use, Urban Design and
Neighborhood Preservation (Page 12). The Historic Preservations section of this chapter highlights the
applicant’s address as a site that, “…have been identified as being of historic importance within the City,
regardless of whether or not they are in the Cottonwood Historic Area.”

RECOMMENDATION:
City Council shall hold the required public hearing and review the applicant’s presentation. It is the
recommendation of the Community and Economic Development Director to approve the proposal, based
upon the following findings;

CED, Director findings:
        1. The property owner has initiated the application, (§13.07.050C) and
        2. The property complies with §13.07.050.F as designated and listed site on the National
            Register of Historic Places, and
        3. The property has been highlighted by the General Plan as a location holding historical
            significance to the city.

STANDARDS for CONSIDERATION, FOR or AGAINST:
13.07.050 HISTORIC DESIGNATION:
    F. Criteria: Any district, building, structure, object or site listed by the National Register of Historic
       Places may be designated to the city's historic site register. Alternatively, any district building,
       object or site may be designated if the council finds it meets all the criteria outlined below:
            1. It is located within the city.
            2. It is at least fifty (50) years old.
                                       City of Holladay
                                   HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
           3. Historic integrity:
               a. It retains its historic integrity, in that there are no major alterations or additions that
              have obscured or destroyed the significant historic features. Major alterations that would
              destroy the historic integrity include, but are not limited to, changes in pitch of the main
              roof, enlargement or enclosure of windows on the principal facades, addition of upper
              stories or the removal of original upper stories, covering the exterior walls with non-
              historic materials, moving the resource from its original location to one that is dissimilar to
              the original, additions which significantly detract from or obscure the original form and
              appearance of the structure when viewed from the public way.



ATTACHMENTS:
Property documentation
General Plan, Chapter 2




FISCAL IMPACT:
None



SUGGESTED MOTION:
Approval
 DAVMMcDONALD HOUSE
 4659 Highland Drive, Salt Lake
   City, Salt Lake County, Utah
 Taken by J.S.H.Smith, August 1978
 Negative filed at Ut.St.Hist.Soc.
 View of southeast corner looking
'jijfromcsoutheast to northwest.
             OCT241978
j. "A 1 1 >
* v:
              v*""
        i
CITY OF HOLLADAY
  GENERAL PLAN
    2016-2031
         Adopted July 14, 2016
  *Amended November 2019 – Chp. 3 and Chp. 5 (MIH)
     *Amended October 2020 – Land Use Map 2.3
       *Amended December 2020 – Chp 2 (MIH)
      *Amended September 2022 – Chp 5 (MIH)
        *Revision January 2023 – CHp 5 (MIH)
Chapter 2- Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation   City of Holladay General Plan-2016-2031




CHAPTER 2: LAND USE, URBAN DESIGN and
           NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION
                                                                                   *Amended December 2020

INTRODUCTION

This element of the General Plan provides policy direction and guidance for land use decisions, urban
design, and neighborhood preservation. It also includes a Future Land Use Map and addresses the
image, character, and livability of the City.

The goals of this element are designed to:
    1. Maintain the established pattern of development in the City;
    2. Ensure that new developments are high quality and compatible with the surrounding
             neighborhoods;
    3. Retain the natural character of the City and its neighborhoods; and
    4. Ensure that the zoning ordinance meets the goals expressed in this General Plan.

A list of implementation strategies supporting these goals is included at the end of this chapter.

LAND USE AND PHYSICAL FORM OF HOLLADAY

The City of Holladay has transitioned from a lightly populated agricultural settlement to a nearly
built‐out bedroom community. The physical structure of the City is unique. Older neighborhoods reflect
their coveted location along the edges of the Big Cottonwood Creek. Newer neighborhoods exhibit
more typical suburban patterns. Other features that define the character of the City include the
following:
     • The lack of a discernible street grid typical of other valley centers;
     • Creeks and canals that wind through the maze of lowland cottonwood forests;
     • Sinuous public and private lanes that connect residential areas and commercial developments in
        a gentle, lived‐in fashion;
     • Long connecting roadways that provide access to heavily‐wooded private lanes that lead to
        large‐lot single‐family estates;
     • Large and deep residential lots which provide significant private open space;
     • A semi-rural character with continuing agricultural uses including orchards, vegetable gardens,
        horses and other livestock;
     • Finely‐detailed walls and fences, mature vegetation, and high‐quality landscaping that provide
        privacy and transition between neighborhoods;
     • A variety of housing styles and types;
     • Distinct neighborhoods; and
     • Diverse commercial and mixed use districts including the historic commercial center of the city
        known as the Holladay Village, Holladay Crossroads area and the Holladay Hills redevelopment
        area formerly known as the Cottonwood Mall. Together, these features help establish the
        unique "sense of place” that makes Holladay one of the most desirable communities in the
        region.


                                                                                                            9
Chapter 2- Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation                 City of Holladay General Plan-2016-2031



EXISTING LAND USE

The existing land uses illustrated in Map 2.1 are dominated by low‐density, single‐family residential
uses, which comprise slightly more than half of the total area (56.9‐percent). When duplexes, planned
unit developments (PUDs), and multi‐family residential uses are added to the total, residential uses
comprise just over 63% of the total land area of the City, validating the City’s primary designation as a
“bedroom community.”

 Commercial uses currently comprise only three percent of existing land area, and are generally situated
around key intersections along Highland Drive, Murray‐Holladay Road, and 6200 South. Key commercial
sites include the rapidly‐transforming Holladay Village area; the Holladay Hillsredevelopment site with
its supporting commercial areas at Highland Drive and Murray Holladay Road, and the Holladay
Crossroads, the commercial area at Highland Drive and 6200 South. The Black Diamond Campus on 3900
South is an example of several smaller, more isolated commercial sites found in the northeast quadrant
of the City. There are also a number of even smaller commercial office/mixed‐use sites that comprise
just over one percent of the total land area, the largest being the Millrock/Old Mill Village Commercial
Area, which is a Class‐A office complex located just east of Interstate 215 near 3000 East.

Other existing land uses include public buildings and facilities, schools, and churches, which together
encompass approximately five percent of the total. Open space, such as parks and public land in the
foothills cover nearly five percent, as well.

Vacant residential and commercial property, including the steep slopes of the Wasatch Mountains on
the southeast edge of the community, covers just over three percent of the City.

               Land Useas a portion of total land area
               of the city*
   56.9%       Single Family Development
    2.1%       Duplex/Twin
    4.5%       Multi-Family (3+dwelling units)
               Commercial (including the Holladay
     3.0%      Hillsredevelopment site; currently vacant)
     1.4%      Office
     0.6%      Agriculture
     3.2%      Vacant-Residential
               Vacant-Commercial (not including the
    0.1%       Holladay Hillsredevelopment site)
    5.4%       Public/Quasi-Public, including utilities
    4.6%       Open Space (Public & Private)
  ~20.0%       Roads

* The city covers approximately 8.39 square miles. The total acreage of the City is approximately 5,400 acres, including roads.
However, acreage of roads (just over 900 acres) was excluded from the GIS data layer that was used to calculate existing land
uses in the table above. Roads comprise approximately 20% of the total land area within the City.
Map 2.1, Existing Land Use




                                                                                                                              10
Chapter 2- Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation   City of Holladay General Plan-2016-2031




                                                                                                            11
Chapter 2- Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation   City of Holladay General Plan-2016-2031



EXISTING URBAN DESIGN

Urban design describes the physical structure of the City’s history; –the function and architecture of
buildings and structures; types of roadways, trails and parks; other planned and unplanned open
spaces; community “branding”, and the preservation of the local history and ecology.

Holladay is defined by its natural cottonwood forests, riparian vegetation, as well as the nearby Mount
Olympus, linear roads and meandering lanes that crisscross the City, and the street edges lined by trees,
walls, and fences that buffer residential areas, manicured yards, and gardens. Sensitive design is the
rule rather than the exception in Holladay, with carefully conceived monuments marking key entrances
to the City and a unified signage system announcing one's arrival at the Holladay Village. The various
trails, pathways, and road edges provide public places to walk and cycle, connect neighborhoods, and
lead to nearby commercial areas and destinations.

NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION

Existing historic neighborhoods were identified by members of the public as requiring better protection
and preservation. This desire for protection extends beyond the buildings, to small town qualities such
as: mature tree canopies, large lots, historic land uses, fences, residential development along private
lanes, waterways, bridges and masonry walls. This is particularly important in older residential areas
where there is pressure to densify. Current policies regulate the teardown of older units as well as allow
homeowners to remodel or add responsible additions to their homes.

HISTORIC AREAS AND BUILDINGS

The preservation of historic places and structures ranked high in the public involvement process, and it
is an essential component of maintaining the qualities that make the City such a desirable place to live.
To help ensure that Holladay's historic resources are preserved, including land uses, sites, and buildings,
the Historic Preservation Committee (City Code 2.24.060) was established to make recommendations to
the City Council in the creation of historic districts and adoption of standards and guidelines for historic
properties.

In 2006, the Cottonwood Historic Area was established to identify and memorialize a specific portion of
the Cottonwood area known as the Brinton Ward. The portion of this historic area within Holladay is
shown on Map 2.2. The following structures and sites have been identified as being of historic
importance within the City, regardless of whether or not they are in the Cottonwood Historic Area:
David Branson Brinton home, 1981 East Murray‐Holladay Road, Holladay
    A. Santa Anna Casto home, 2731 Casto Lane, Salt Lake City, (moved to City Hall Park, 2009)
    B. George Boyes home, 4910 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay
    C. William J. Bowthorpe home, 4766 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay
    D. Anders Hintze home, 4249 South 2300 East
    E. Brinton-Dahl home/dairy-1501 E Spring Lane
    F. David McDonald home-4659 S Highland Drive
    G. Carl Peterson home-2152 E Walker Lane
An historic walking tour was developed to encourage public knowledge and awareness of the City's
historic resources. The tour identifies historic locations, structures, markers and trees. Those locations
are found on Map 2.2.


                                                                                                            12
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY


                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2025-14


               AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
               HOLLADAY DESIGNATING THAT CERTAIN PROPERTY LOCATED
               AT 4659 SOUTH HIGHLAND DRIVE AS A HISTORIC SITE PURSUANT
               TO THE ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY

        WHEREAS, the owner of property located at 4659 S Highland Drive within the City of
Holladay, has requested that the City Council designate the home as a historic site pursuant to
the City’s ordinances; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay has held a public hearing and finds
that it will serve the public interest and is in the best interests of the property owner and the
residents of the City that property be designated a historic site.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Municipal Council of the City of Holladay,
Utah as follows:

        Section 1.       Adoption and Codification. The City Council of the City of Holladay
hereby finds that the property located at 4659 S Highland Drive is a historic site within the
meaning of the City’s ordinances and should be designated as a historic site. The provisions of
Section 13.86.020(a) of the City Code of the City of Holladay are hereby amended to read in
their entirety as set forth in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference

        Section 2.     Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3.       Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or
posting or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this __ day of August, 2025.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Robert Dahle, Mayor
                                                                                                            13.86.020 Historic Register DRAFT
                                                                                                                          Council 08/28/2025

CHAPTER 13.86
HISTORIC PRESERVATION

SECTION:

13.86.010: Purpose
13.86.020: Historic Sites Register
13.86.030: Historic Site Modification Permit Conditional Use Permit Required
13.86.040: Noncomplying Conditional Uses
13.86.045: Protective Maintenance Required
13.86.050: Site Modification
13.86.060: Additional Uses For Historic Sites
13.86.065: Modification Defined
13.86.070: Interpretation Of Chapter



13.86.010: PURPOSE:

For the purpose of this chapter the term preservation shall refer to the act or process of applying measures necessary to sustain the
existing form, integrity, and materials of an historic property.

This chapter is enacted to establish a historic site register and to provide a sustainable means by which a property owner may
maintain a historic site designated by the city council. Provisions within this chapter intend to preserve sites, structures, landmarks
or buildings with special historical, architectural or aesthetic value which are unique and irreplaceable assets. To accomplish this
purpose, planning commission may approve conditional permits for additional land uses approval is required and all modifications to
historical sites. (Ord. 2012-15, 9-20-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-21, 11-21-2024)

13.86.020: HISTORIC SITES DESIGNATED:

 A. Existing Sites: Each of the following structures and sites in the city is designated a historic site and are subject to the provisions
and standards of this chapter:

   1. David Branson Brinton home, 1981 East Murray-Holladay Road, Holladay.
   2. Santa Anna Casto home, 2731 Casto Lane, Holladay (relocated to City Hall Park, 2009).
   3. William J. Bowthorpe home, 4910 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay.
   4. George Boyes home, 4766 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay.
   5. David McDonald home, 4659 Highland Drive, Holladay

 B. Amendments: The city council may amend the above list of historic sites and structures, including removing or designating of
additional historic sites, subject to the amendment procedures in chapter 13.07.050 of this code. (Ord. 2012-15, 9-20-2012; amd.
Ord. 2024-21, 11-21-2024)

13.86.030: HISTORIC SITE MODIFICATION REQUIREMENTS CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:

  A. Modifications: A conditional use permit is required for any modifications to a historic site or structure, including modifications
to the landscaping, fencing or appearance of any lot, construction, alteration, relocation, improvement or conversion of a historic
site.

  B. Demolitions: A site listed on the Historic Site Register proposed to be demolished or extensively altered is subject to the
following:

   1. Upon verification of a complete permit, the city will delay issuing the modification permit for a maximum of thirty (30) days to
document the property. The property owner shall work with the city staff in the collaboration with other entities, where needed, in
providing access to the site for documentation process.

   2. Documentation shall include, at minimum, exterior photographs of all elevations of the structure. When possible, both
exterior and interior measurements of the structure will be made in order to provide an accurate floor-plan drawing of the structure.
                                                                                                         13.86.020 Historic Register DRAFT
                                                                                                                       Council 08/28/2025
   3. The demolition permit will be issued after thirty (30) days of the initial application whether or not the city has completed
documenting the building. The permit may be issued earlier if documentation is completed before the thirty (30) day deadline.

   4. The documentation will be kept on file with the Community and Economic Development Department, which shall be open to
the public.

  C. Application: Applications for a conditional use permit on a historic site shall be made by the property owner in the manner and
subject to the procedures and requirements set forth in section 13.08.040 of this title. To the extent that the requirements of this
chapter and section 13.08.040 of this title are inconsistent, the requirements of this chapter shall prevail. (Ord. 2012-15, 9-20-2012;
amd. Ord. 2024-21, 11-21-2024)
                                        CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                      ORDINANCE NO. 2025-15


                AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                REPEALING ORDINANCE NUMBER 2025-13 AND ENACTING THE
                PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 13.84 OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY
                CODE, RELATING TO OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS

        WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay has previously adopted Ordinance
Number 2025-15, adopting standards for outdoor lighting, which ordinance proposed the
codification of the new ordinance provisions in an incorrect section of the City’s code; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay now desires to repeal the previous
ordinance which adopted the lighting standards in the incorrect section and to adopt the ordinance
provisions, to be codified as Title 13, Chapter 84 of the City’s land use ordinances; and

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Municipal Council of the City of Holladay,
Utah as follows:

         Section 1.    Repeal. Ordinance number 2025-15 is hereby repealed in its entirety.

        Section 2.    Adoption and Codification. Title 13, Chapter 84 of the City Code of the City
of Holladay is hereby adopted and codified to read in its entirety as set forth in Exhibit A, attached
hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

       Section 3.     Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

        Section 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or posting or
thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.

         PASSED AND APPROVED this __ day of August, 2025.

                                                  HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                  By: ____________________________________
                                                       Robert Dahle, Mayor




[SEAL]                                            VOTING:
                                                  Ty Brewer                  Yea        Nay ___
                                     CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2025

      A RESOLUTION GRANTING ADVICE AND CONSENT OF THE CITY COUNCIL FOR THE
              APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION.

       WHEREAS, the City Manager has the responsibility and authority pursuant to Section
2.08.010 City of Holladay, Code of Ordinances to appoint individuals to various boards and
commissions; and

        WHEREAS, the City Manager has requested advice and consent of the City Council for the
re-appointment of Paul Cunningham as an at-large member of the Planning Commission from
District 3, and the appointment of Patrick Tripeny as a member from District 2; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has the responsibility pursuant to Section 2.08.010 of the
City Code to provide advice and consent on all appointments to City boards; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has met in regular session to consider this appointment;

       NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Holladay, Utah as
follows:

        Section 1.     Re-Appointments. The City Council hereby gives advice and consent for
the appointment the following individuals to the Planning Commission for a term as specified.
Said term shall be as follows:

       Name                                Date Term Begins              Date Term Ends

       Paul Cunningham – at-large Dist. 3 August 28, 2025                June 30, 2028

       Patrick Tripeny –Dist.2             August 28, 2025               June 30, 2028

       Section 2.    Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its
passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 28th day of August, 2025.

                                               HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL


                                               By: ____________________________________
                                                    Robert Dahle, Mayor
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                     RESOLUTION NO. 2025-

               A RESOLUTION GRANTING ADVICE AND CONSENT OF THE CITY
               COUNCIL FOR THE RE-APPOINTMENT OF TWO MEMBERS TO THE
               HISTORICAL COMMISSION AS ESTABLISHED IN SECTION 2.08010E
               OF THE HOLLADAY CITY CODE.

       WHEREAS, the City Manager has the responsibility and authority pursuant to Section
2.08.010B, City of Holladay, Code of Ordinances to appoint individuals to various boards and
commissions, subject to the advice and consent of the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Manager has requested the Council’s consent to the re-appointment of
Kim Duffy and Lyman Losee to serve as members of the Historical Commission for a term not to
exceed eighteen (18) months each, to expire on December 31, 2026; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has met in a regular session to consider this proposed
appointment.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay, Utah as
follows:

         Section 1.    Appointment. The City Council hereby gives advice and its consent to the
re-appointment of Kim Duffy and Lyman Losee to serve as members of the Historical Commission
for a term not to exceed 18 months each, to expire on December 31, 2026.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.

             PASSED AND APPROVED this ___ day of August, 2025.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL


                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Robert Dahle, Mayor
                                                 8/27/2025




    HOLLADAY CITY
    GENERAL FUND FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY PLAN
    SCENARIO ANALYSIS

    AUGUST 28, 2025



1




    AGENDA

             REVIEW MODELING ASSUMPTIONS

             IMPACTS OF INFLATION

             FUNDING NEEDS

             REVISED SCENARIO ANALYSIS

             NEXT STEPS
      2



2




                                                        1
                                                                                                                         8/27/2025




    MODEL ASSUMPTIONS
        REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE GROWTH
    Annual Assumptions                                      2027       2028        2029         2030         2031
    New Property Tax Revenues (Revenue Increase)             0.00%      0.00%        0.00%          0.00%      0.00%
    Personal Property Taxes                                  0.00%      0.00%        0.00%          0.00%      0.00%
    Property Tax -Delinquent                                 0.00%      0.00%        0.00%          0.00%      0.00%
    General Sales and Use Tax                                2.50%      2.50%        2.50%          2.50%      2.50%
    Franchise Tax                                            0.00%      0.00%        0.00%          0.00%      0.00%
    TRT& Motor Vehicle                                       0.00%      0.00%        0.00%          0.00%      0.00%
    Licenses & Permits                                       0.00%      0.00%        0.00%          0.00%      0.00%
    Intergovernmental                                        0.00%     -3.27%        0.00%          0.00%      0.00%
    Other Fees                                               0.00%      0.00%        0.00%          0.00%      0.00%
    Other Revenue                                            0.00%      0.00%        0.00%          0.00%      0.00%
    Court Fines                                              0.00%      0.00%        0.00%          0.00%      0.00%
    Contributions (Excludes Fund Balance Contributions)      0.00%      0.00%        0.00%          0.00%      0.00%
    General Expenditure Average Annual Growth Rate            3.0%       3.0%         3.0%          3.0%        3.0%
    Public Works Expense                                      4.5%       4.5%         4.5%          4.5%        4.5%
    Public Safety (UPD Contract) Growth Rate                  7.0%       7.0%         7.0%          7.0%        7.0%

                                                                                Model adjustment to remove
                                                                                SLCo    Health  Department
                                                                                Grant ($70K).
    3



3




    MODEL ASSUMPTIONS
     NEW CIP
             NOTABLE PROJECTS INCLUDE CITY HALL & SPRING LANE (SEE
              SCENARIO ANALYSIS).

                           2026*           2027            2028           2029               2030            2031
        New CIP          $21,810,514     $1,898,721       $3,609,385    $3,903,221        $4,177,889        $2,320,867
    * FY2026 BUDGETED + CITY HALL & SPRING LANE COSTS




    4



4




                                                                                                                                2
                                                                         8/27/2025




    MODEL ASSUMPTIONS
           FY25 GF FUND BALANCE @ $6.7M

           FY25 CIP FUND BALANCE @ $17.6M

           GF/CIP FUNDS CONTINUE TRANSFERS OUT TO DEBT SERVICE FUND

           5-YEAR PLANNING HORIZON FOR RATE/TRANSFER SETTING, MODEL
            BUILT TO FORECAST BEYOND THIS PERIOD

           PERFORMANCE TARGETS:
                GENERAL FUND:
                      25% OF GF REVENUES AS UNRESTRICTED FUND BALANCE

                CIP FUND:
                      $4M OF UNRESTRICTED FUND BALANCE


    5



5




    INFLATION IMPACTS

     IMPACTS OF                  INFLATION ON GENERAL FUND
        WITHOUT BONDING AND TRANSFERS OUT TO
        CIP FUND
           UPD AND PUBLIC WORKS GROWTH ASSUMPTIONS:

                INFLATION AT 3% = NO TAX INCREASE

                UPD AT 7% AND PUBLIC WORKS AT 4.5% = 2% TAX INCREASE



    6



6




                                                                                3
                                                               8/27/2025




    FUNDING NEEDS

     FINANCING   CITY HALL SEISMIC RETROFIT &
        RENOVATION + SPRING LANE PARK
            COMBINED COST = $18.7M

            ALTERNATIVE FUNDING SOURCES INCLUDE COMMUNITY
             PROJECT FUND AND UNRESTRICTED FUND BALANCE FROM
             PRIOR COST OFFSETS

            MODEL ASSUMES BOND PROCEEDS = $10M IN FY26

    7



7




    SCENARIO ANALYSIS
     4 DEBT SERVICE SCENARIOS OPTIONS:


        1.    20 YEARS LEVEL DEBT SERVICE
        2.    20 YEARS LEVEL DEBT SERVICE, INCLUDING 2
              YEARS OF CAPITALIZED INTEREST
        3.    20 YEARS WRAP AROUND DEBT SERVICE
        4.    20 YEARS WRAP AROUND DEBT SERVICE,
              INCLUDING 2 YEARS OF CAPITALIZED INTEREST



    8



8




                                                                      4
                                                                                                                          8/27/2025




     SCENARIO ANALYSIS
      OUTCOMES
     Debt Service Schedule                2026          2027            2028         2029         2030         2031
     Scenario 1: Level DS                 $225,653     $834,625        $833,500     $831,625     $833,875     $835,125
     Scenario 2: Level DS + CAPI                 $0            $0      $294,500     $993,625     $992,375     $995,000
     Scenario 3: Wrap around DS           $230,144     $538,000        $538,000     $538,000     $538,000     $538,000
     Scenario 4: Wrap around DS + CAPI           $0            $0      $299,750     $599,500     $599,500     $599,500


     Tax Increase Needed
     Scenario 1: Level DS                                 9.00%           9.00%        9.00%        9.00%        9.00%
     Scenario 2: Level DS + CAPI                          8.30%           8.30%        8.30%        8.30%        8.30%
     Scenario 3: Wrap around DS                           8.00%           8.00%        8.00%        8.00%        8.00%
     Scenario 4: Wrap around DS + CAPI                    7.50%           7.50%        7.50%        7.50%        7.50%


     GF Transfer to CIP
     All Scenarios                                    $1,097,395      $1,097,395   $1,097,395   $1,097,395   $1,097,395




     9



9




     SCENARIO ANALYSIS
      TAX IMPACT (YEAR ONE)
     *Average Residential Home Value = $1,000,000

                                           Year One Tax Increase               Year One Tax Increase
                                                 (Annual)                            (Monthly)


             Scenario 1 (9% Increase)                               $70.95                          $5.91


             Scenario 2 (8.3% Increase)                             $65.45                          $5.45


             Scenario 3 (8.0% Increase)                             $63.25                          $5.27


             Scenario 4 (7.5% Increase)                             $59.40                          $4.95




     10



10




                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                     8/27/2025




     COMPARISONS
      GENERAL FUND TAX LEVY COMPARISON

                                                                                   2025 Certified Tax Rates
     0.003500

     0.003000

     0.002500

     0.002000

     0.001500

     0.001000

     0.000500

     0.000000




                                                                                Average             2025 Certified Property Tax Rate


        *Does not include any rate increases that have been subject to truth in taxation this year.



     11



11




     COMPARISONS
      GENERAL FUND TAX AVG. BILL COMPARISON
                                                                                  2025 Certified Tax Rates
           $2,000
                                                                                                                                  $1,742.95
           $1,800
           $1,600                                                                                                 $1,434.40
                                                                                                                                                                         $1,343.10
           $1,400
           $1,200
           $1,000                                                                         $932.80                                                        $740.85
                               $829.95
                $800                                        $733.70             $696.85                     $722.15        $576.95                                 $708.95
                                                                                                                                          $451.00
                $600 $476.30             $514.80                      $504.90                                                                       $458.70
                $400
                $200                               $99.00
                                                                                                    $0.00
                 $0




                                                                                             Tax Bill         Average


                *Average Residential Home Value = $1,000,000
                *Does not include any rate increases that have been subject to truth in taxation this year.


     12



12




                                                                                                                                                                                            6
                                                     8/27/2025




 ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS

          UPCOMING PROJECTS ON THE HORIZON:

            HIGHLAND DRIVE RECONSTRUCTION

            PUBLIC WORKS FACILITY


          DEBT STRUCTURE COULD INFLUENCE SOLUTIONS

          CHANGES TO FEDERAL FUNDING


     13



13




 NEXT STEPS
          REVIEW AND REVISE ASSUMPTIONS AS NEEDED

          MODIFY SCENARIOS IF NEEDED

          ADOPT, MODIFY, OR REJECT PROPOSED
          CHANGES



     14



14




                                                            7
                                                              8/27/2025




                      Capital Projects
                      Financing Options
                      City of Holladay, August 2025




1




                    PROJECTS AND HOW WE PAY FOR THEM
                    • City Hall Seismic Upgrade and Refresh
                    • “Spring Lane” Park Project



                    • Levers Available
                    • Grant Funding Availability
                    • Other Considerations




    2   8/27/2025

2




                                                                     1
                                                                                                                   8/27/2025




                    Council Discussion of Projects
                    Seismic Refresh and Update                    Spring Lane Site
                    • Discussion in Council Retreat, March 2023   • Council Discussion regarding Spring Lane,
                                                                    September, October 2023
                    • Phase 1 Presentation, July 2023
                                                                  • Budget Amendment for Concept Work,
                    • Timing, Phasing and Cost Presentation,        November 2023
                      September 2023
                                                                  • RFP for Concept Work issued, November
                    • Further presentation and Discussion with      2023
                      Architect, October 2023 (Level 1 and 2
                      Safety Discussion)                          • Concept Work Kickoff, February 2024
                    • Schematics and Cost Presentation, April     • Spring Lane Reuse Plan Initial Presentation,
                      2024                                          April 2024
                    • Budget Discussion, May 9, 2024              • Spring Lane Budget Discussion, May 2024
                    • Options and Funding for Spring Lane and     • Options and Funding for Spring Lane and
                      City Hall, November 2024                      City Hall, November 2024



    3   8/27/2025

3




                       City Hall Seismic
                       Upgrade and Refresh

4




                                                                                                                          2
                                                8/27/2025




                    City Hall Vision




    5   8/27/2025

5




                    Potential Phasing Options




    6   8/27/2025

6




                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                              8/27/2025




                    City Hall Cost Estimate




    7   8/27/2025

7




                    City Hall Planning Budget

                    November 2024 Estimate                                                       August 2025 Estimate
                                EXPENDITURES
                                PHASES                                        COST ESTIMATE
                                Design-Build                             $         300,000.00
                                                                                                             Relocation (move out and back)                $    700,000.00
                                                                                                 CITY HALL




                                Relocation                               $         600,000.00
                    CITY HALL




                                                                                                             Construction                                  $   8,050,039.00
                                Construction                             $        7,500,000.00
                                Contingency for Inflation                $        1,000,000.00               Contingency                                   $   1,000,000.00

                                HVAC                                     $        1,000,000.00                                        City Hall Subtotal   $ 9,750,039.00

                                                       City Hall Subtotal $      10,400,000.00




    8   8/27/2025

8




                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                              8/27/2025




                       Spring Lane Adaptive
                       Reuse

9




                     Add a Slide Title - 3




    10   8/27/2025    Add a footer

10




                                                     5
                                                  8/27/2025




                  Concept Plan




 11   8/27/2025

11




                  Potential Spring Lane Phasing




 12   8/27/2025

12




                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                         8/27/2025




                  Spring Lane Phased Cost Estimate
                  PRE-CONSTRUCTIONPHASE
                                                                                                SERVICE LIFE
                                                 SF      ROMCOST / SF    TOTAL COST     (WITH PROPER MAINTENANCE)      PHASE                   KEY ELEMENTS INCLUDED

                     Demolition & Site
                       Remediation                                       $1,000,000                N/A               DEMOLITION   GRANITE SCHOOL DISTRICT ANTICIPATED CONTRIBUTION

                                 PRE-CONSTRUCTION - COMBINED TOTAL       $1,000,000



                  CONSTRUCTIONCOSTESTIMATE
                                                                                        PHASE1ITEMS
                           Pavilion             2,000       $183.70       $353,450               50YRS                Phase 01    Structure,waterand electrical hookups, and furniture
                     Pergola& Bridges                                                                                             Glulambeam pergola, bridgetruss structures,seat
                     (Adaptive Reuse)           3,250       $197.80       $639,052               50YRS                Phase 01          walls built into courtyard garden wall
                         Restrooms               300        $667.82       $232,677               30YRS                Phase 01          Structure,utilities, fixtures, and finishes
                      Pickleball Courts        18,000       $52.86        $600,940               50YRS                Phase 01           Surface, nets, equipment, and fencing
                    Necessary Add’l Site                                                                                           Surrounding earthwork, hardscapes, plaza, and
                      Improvements             54,346       $39.90       $1,833,732              30YRS                Phase 01                supporting landscaping
                                                                                                                                   Newasphalt, removalof school drop-off curbing, and
                       Parking Overlay         54,800        $2.35        $123,656              10-15YRS              Phase 01       reconfiguration to expandfrom 66 to 122stalls
                                            PHASE1- COMBINED TOTAL       $3,783,507

                                                                                        PHASE2ITEMS
                   Playground Equipment                                                           20YRS                                       Newplaygroundequipment
                           Budget                                        $1,000,000    (15YEAR WARRANTYISTYPICAL)     Phase 02        (5-12y/oplayground, climbing walls, and more)
                   Playground Surface &                                                            30YRS                          Playgroundsurfacing, surrounding earthwork, and
                      Surrounding Site                                   $1,203,199   (15YRS FORPLAYGROUNDSURFACE)    Phase 02                      landscaping
                                            PHASE2- COMBINED TOTAL       $2,203,199

                                         CONSTRUCTIONTOTAL              $5,986,706




 13   8/27/2025

13




                  Potential Wishlist Items




 14   8/27/2025

14




                                                                                                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                                                                                           8/27/2025




                  Spring Lane Planning Budget

                  November 2024 Estimate                                                                           August 2025 Estimate


                                Lease (As currently discussed, likely to be paid
                                from operating budget)                                         TBD
                                                                                                                    Design                                              $    250,000.00
                  SPRING LANE




                                Schematic Design                                    $            25,000.00
                                Demolition                                          $          1,000,000.00         Phase I                                             $   3,660,000.00
                                Demo costs required by City                         $           400,000.00
                                                                                                                    Phase II                                            $   2,200,000.00
                                Design                                              $           250,000.00
                                Phase I                                             $          3,660,000.00         Contingency                                         $    857,888.00
                                Phase II                                            $          2,200,000.00
                                                                                                                    Wish List                                           $   2,000,000.00
                                Wish List
                                                              Spring Lane Subtotal $          7,535,000.00                                 Spring Lane Subtotal         $   8,967,888.00




 15   8/27/2025

15




                  Budget and Funding for Overall Projects
                                               Relocation (move out and back)                                                                                 $        700,000.00
                                 CITY HALL




                                               Construction                                                                                                   $      8,050,039.00
                                               Contingency                                                                                                    $      1,000,000.00
                                                                                                                                     City Hall Subtotal       $      9,750,039.00



                                               Design                                                                                                         $    250,000.00
                                 SPRING LANE




                                               Phase I                                                                                                        $ 3,660,000.00
                                               Phase II                                                                                                       $ 2,200,000.00
                                               Contingency                                                                                                    $    857,888.00
                                               Wish List                                                                                                      $ 2,000,000.00
                                                                                                                                  Spring Lane Subtotal        $ 8,967,888.00
                                               TOTAL COST FOR BOTH PROJECTS                                                                                   $ 18,717,927.00


                                               SOURCE

                                               Community Project Fund (City Hall seismic, recommended)                                                        $      1,760,000.00
                                               Capital Projects Fund Balance - previous cost offset                                                           $      1,800,000.00
                                 REVENUE




                                               Capital Projects Fund Balance                                                                                  $      4,000,000.00
                                               General Fund Fund Balance
                                               Grants                                                                                                         $      1,157,927.00
                                               Other (donations, corporate sponsorship, maintenance participation, etc)
                                               Bond                                                                                                               $ 10,000,000.00
                                               TOTAL REVENUE FOR BOTH PROJECTS                                                                                    $ 18,717,927.00



 16   8/27/2025                                              Add a footer

16




                                                                                                                                                                                                  8
                                                              8/27/2025




       Project Financing

17




     Levers
     • Fund Balance
       • General Fund
       • Capital Projects Fund
     • Bonds
       • General Obligation vs. Other Types of Bonds
       • Length of Repayment for Bonds
       • Type of Bonds
     • Local Funds associated with Previous Federal Funding
     • Phasing of Projects




18




                                                                     9
                                                                                                               8/27/2025




                  Potential Funding Opportunities
                  • Community Project Funding, aka “earmark”
                    oContinue to work with federal and state lobbyists
                  • Possible Grants
                    o Salt Lake County: Tourism, Recreation, Culture, and Convention (TRCC) Support Program
                     (estimate included in funding plan)
                    o Utah Office of Energy Development: Energy Efficiency Conservation Block Grant (secured
                     and included in funding plan)
                    o Central Utah Water Conservancy District: Landscape Incentive Program
                    oDepartment of Natural Resources – Utah Outdoor Recreation Grants for Spring Lane.
                  • Sponsorships, Fundraising, and Partnerships




 19   8/27/2025

19




                    Other Considerations

20




                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                               8/27/2025




      Things to Consider
      • Rapid Growth of Fund Balances Not Likely to Occur Again
      • Partner Dependent Service Models Could Change
      • Operating Budget Impacts: Increased Maintenance and Operational Expenditures
        o New Staff
           1 FTE, Approved FY2024-25 Budget
           May Need Additional Seasonal Staff for new park
        o Water Usage
        o Supplies & Materials
        o Equipment
        o Vehicle
      • New Operating Revenue from User Fees
        oFacilities Rental
        oSports Clubs
        oArts & Cultural


      Recommendation: Ensure City has flexibility we need to address other issues that could
      present themselves in future years, whether with fund balance or bonds.

 21

21




      Final Thoughts
      • Financial Modeling is presented for context but does not replace annual
        budgeting – budgets are proposed, reviewed and adopted every year
        reflecting the policy priorities of the Council that is appropriating funds at the
        time.


      • Staff has included items in the model based on current Council priorities and
        existing needs that may or may not be funded in future years by future
        Councils. If those items are eliminated, need for additional revenue in future
        years anticipated in this model decreases.




22




                                                                                                     11
                                                                                                                         8/27/2025




                  Potential Change in Property Tax based only on
                  Change in Debt Service
                  Current Property Tax Revenue                                 8,510,034
                  Current Tax Rate                                             0.001334

                  Total Property Tax Needed - No Other Budget Changes        FY 2027         FY 2028       FY 2029
                  Scenario 1                                                    9,344,034              -            -
                  Scenario 2                                                            -              -    9,503,659
                  Scenario 3                                                    9,048,034              -            -
                  Scenario 4                                                            -              -    9,109,534

                  Potential Tax Rate Increase Needed for Only Debt Service
                  Scenario 1                                                    0.001466               -           -
                  Scenario 2                                                           -               -    0.001491
                  Scenario 3                                                    0.001419               -           -
                  Scenario 4                                                           -               -    0.001429
                  % Increase
                  Scenario 1                                                          9.9%             -           -
                  Scenario 2                                                           -               -         11.8%
                  Scenario 3                                                          6.4%             -           -
                  Scenario 4                                                           -               -          7.1%




 23   8/27/2025

23




                                                                                                                               12
