                                 NOTICE OF A MEETING OF THE
                               CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                  THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 2025

4:30-6:00 p.m.    Legislative Meeting


PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a Council meeting
on Thursday, January 9, 2025 at 6:00 pm. Members of the Council may participate by electronic
means if needed. The Council Chambers shall serve as the anchor location.
* Agenda items may be moved in order, sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or in this agenda. Interested
parties are encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

To provide a public comment or make a comment during any public hearing, may do so in the following ways:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@holladayut.gov




                                                    AGENDA


I.       Welcome – Mayor Dahle

II.      Pledge of Allegiance

III.     Public Comments
         Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda may provide their
         comment via email to the Council before 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting to
         scarlson@holladayut.gov with the subject line: Public Comment. Comments are subject to the
         Public Comment Policy set forth below

IV.      Consideration of Resolution 2025-01 Appointing a Mayor Pro-tem

V.       Recess City Council in a Work Meeting:
         a. Open & Public Meetings Training – Jayme Blakesley
            a. Ethics
            b. Conflict of Interest
         b. Fraud Training Checklist – Christian Larsen
         c. Review of Council Policies - Gina Chamness
         d. Role of Council Liaison- Gina Chamness
         e. Review of 2024 Retreat Goals -- Gina Chamness
                   a. Set retreat date for 2025
          f.   Legislative Update Process
          g. Other Business

VI.       Closed Session pursuant to Utah Code Section 52-4-204 & 205

VII.      Adjourn




 Public Comment Policy & Procedure: During each regular Council Meeting there will be a Public Comment
 Time. The purpose of the Public Comment Time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council. Citizens requesting to
 address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and present it to the City Recorder. In general,
 the Chairman will allow an individual three minutes to address the Council. A spokesman, recognized as
 representing a group in attendance, may be allowed up to five minutes. Comments which cannot be made within
 these time limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting so
 they can be copied and distributed to the Council. At the conclusion of the Citizen Comment time, the Chairman
 may direct staff to assist the citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative
 department(s); or take no action. This policy also applies to all Public Hearings.


 CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
 I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above agenda notice was
 posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,
 and was emailed to the Salt Lake Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

 DATE POSTED: Monday, January 6, 2025 at 10:30 am
 Stephanie N. Carlson MMC,
 City Recorder City of Holladay


         Reasonable accommodation for individuals with disabilities or those needing language interpretation
      services can be provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at
             least three days in advance. TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2025-01

                A RESOLUTION SELECTING A MAYOR PRO TEMPORE FOR THE
                CITY OF HOLLADAY.

        WHEREAS, the policies of the City Council of the City of Holladay provide for the annual
selection of a Mayor Pro Tempore; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council has met in regular session to consider this selection.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay that it
selects Emily Gray to serve as Mayor Pro Tempore during Calendar Year 2025 or until a successor
is selected.

         PASSED AND APPROVED this 9th day of January, 2025.

                                                   HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                   By: ____________________________________
                                                        Robert Dahle, Mayor

[SEAL]                                             VOTING:
                                                   Matt Durham       Yea        Nay
                                                   Ty Brewer         Yea        Nay ___
                                                   Drew Quinn        Yea        Nay ___
                                                   Paul Fotheringham Yea        Nay ___
                                                   Emily Gray        Yea        Nay ___
                                                   Robert Dahle      Yea        Nay ___


ATTEST:

_____________________________
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
City Recorder



         DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 9th day of January, 2025.

         RECORDED this 9th day of January, 2025.
     Fraud Risk Assessment
Continued
                            340
     *Total Points Earned: ____/395 *Risk Level: Very Low                         Low      Moderate       High      Very High
                                                                    > 355       316-355     276-315      200-275      < 200

                                                                                                                   Yes     Pts
       1. Does the entity have adequate basic separation of duties or mitigating controls as                       200    200
          outlined in the attached Basic Separation of Duties Questionnaire?
       2. Does the entity have governing body adopted written policies in the following areas:
           a. Conflict of interest?                                                                                 5       5
           b. Procurement?                                                                                          5       5
           c. Ethical behavior?                                                                                     5       5
           d. Reporting fraud and abuse?                                                                            0       5
           e. Travel?                                                                                               5       5
           f. Credit/Purchasing cards (where applicable)?                                                           5       5
           g. Personal use of entity assets?                                                                        5       5
           h. IT and computer security?                                                                             0       5
           i. Cash receipting and deposits?                                                                         0       5
       3. Does the entity have a licensed or certified (CPA, CGFM, CMA, CIA, CFE, CGAP,                            0       20
       CPFO) expert as part of its management team?
          a. Do any members of the management team have at least a bachelor's degree in                            10      10
             accounting?
       4. Are employees and elected officials required to annually commit in writing to abide by a                 20      20
           statement of ethical behavior?
       5. Have all governing body members completed entity specific (District Board Member                         20      20
          Training for local/special service districts & interlocal entities, Introductory Training for
          Municipal Officials for cities & towns, etc.) online training (training.auditor.utah.gov)
          within four years of term appointment/election date?
       6. Regardless of license or formal education, does at least one member of the                               20      20
          management team receive at least 40 hours of formal training related to accounting,
          budgeting, or other financial areas each year?
       7. Does the entity have or promote a fraud hotline?                                                         20      20
       8. Does the entity have a formal internal audit function?                                                   0       20
       9. Does the entity have a formal audit committee?                                                           20      20


                        City of Holladay
     *Entity Name: _________________________________________________________________

                                          6/30/2025                        1/3/2024
     *Completed for Fiscal Year Ending: ________________ *Completion Date: ________________

                Gina Chamness                           Christian Larsen
     *CAO Name: __________________________ *CFO Name: ____________________________


     *CAO Signature: _______________________ *CFO Signature: _________________________

     *Required

Utah State Capitol Complex, East Office Building, Suite E310 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-2310 • Tel: (801) 538-1025 • auditor.utah.gov
        Basic Separation of Duties

See the following page for instructions and definitions.
                                                                                                            Yes      No     MC*      N/A
  1. Does the entity have a board chair, clerk, and treasurer who are three
     separate people?                                                                                        X

  2. Are all the people who are able to receive cash or check payments different
     from all of the people who are able to make general ledger entries?                                    X

  3. Are all the people who are able to collect cash or check payments different
     from all the people who are able to adjust customer accounts? If no customer                                           X
     accounts, check “N/A”.

  4. Are all the people who have access to blank checks different from those who
     are authorized signers?                                                                                X

  5. Does someone other than the clerk and treasurer reconcile all bank accounts
     OR are original bank statements reviewed by a person other than the clerk to                           X
     detect unauthorized disbursements?

  6. Does someone other than the clerk review periodic reports of all general
     ledger accounts to identify unauthorized payments recorded in those                                   X
     accounts?

  7. Are original credit/purchase card statements received directly from the card
     company by someone other than the card holder? If no credit/purchase cards,
                                                                                                            X
     check “N/A”.

  8. Does someone other than the credit/purchase card holder ensure that all card
     purchases are supported with receipts or other supporting documentation? If                            X
     no credit/purchase cards, check “N/A”.

  9. Does someone who is not a subordinate of the credit/purchase card holder
     review all card purchases for appropriateness (including the chief
                                                                                                                                X
     administrative officer and board members if they have a card)? If no
     credit/purchase cards, check “N/A”.

10. Does the person who authorizes payment for goods or services, who is not
    the clerk, verify the receipt of goods or services?                                                     X

 11. Does someone authorize payroll payments who is separate from the person
     who prepares payroll payments? If no W-2 employees, check “N/A”.                                          X

 12. Does someone review all payroll payments who is separate from the person
     who prepares payroll payments? If no W-2 employees, check “N/A”.                                       X

* MC = Mitigating Control




  Utah State Capitol Complex, East Office Building, Suite E310 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-2310 • Tel: (801) 538-1025 • auditor.utah.gov
     Basic Separation of Duties
Continued

     Instructions: Answer questions 1-12 on the Basic Separation of Duties Questionnaire using the
     definitions provided below.

      If all of the questions were answered “Yes” or “No” with mitigating controls (“MC”) in place, or “N/A,” the
     entity has achieved adequate basic separation of duties. Question 1 of the Fraud Risk Assessment
     Questionnaire will be answered “Yes.” 200 points will be awarded for question 1 of the Fraud Risk
     Assessment Questionnaire.
      If any of the questions were answered “No,” and mitigating controls are not in place, the entity has not
     achieved adequate basic separation of duties. Question 1 of the Fraud Risk Assessment Questionnaire will
     remain blank. 0 points will be awarded for question 1 of the Fraud Risk Assessment Questionnaire.

     Definitions:
     Board Chair is the elected or appointed chairperson of an entity’s governing body, e.g. Mayor, Commissioner,
     Councilmember or Trustee. The official title will vary depending on the entity type and form of government.

     Clerk is the bookkeeper for the entity, e.g. Controller, Accountant, Auditor or Finance Director. Though the
     title for this position may vary, they validate payment requests, ensure compliance with policy and budgetary
     restrictions, prepare checks, and record all financial transactions.

     Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) is the person who directs the day-to-day operations of the entity. The
     CAO of most cities and towns is the mayor, except where the city has a city manager. The CAO of most local
     and special districts is the board chair, except where the district has an appointed director. In school districts,
     the CAO is the superintendent. In counties, the CAO is the commission or council chair, except where there is
     an elected or appointed manager or executive.

     General Ledger is a general term for accounting books. A general ledger contains all financial transactions of
     an organization and may include sub-ledgers that are more detailed. A general ledger may be electronic or
     paper based. Financial records such as invoices, purchase orders, or depreciation schedules are not part of the
     general ledger, but rather support the transaction in the general ledger.

     Mitigating Controls are systems or procedures that effectively mitigate a risk in lieu of separation of duties.

     Original Bank Statement means a document that has been received directly from the bank. Direct receipt of
     the document could mean having the statement 1) mailed to an address or PO Box separate from the entity’s
     place of business, 2) remain in an unopened envelope at the entity offices, or 3) electronically downloaded
     from the bank website by the intended recipient. The key risk is that a treasurer or clerk who is intending to
     conceal an unauthorized transaction may be able to physically or electronically alter the statement before the
     independent reviewer sees it.
     Treasurer is the custodian of all cash accounts and is responsible for overseeing the receipt of all payments
     made to the entity. A treasurer is always an authorized signer of all entity checks and is responsible for
     ensuring cash balances are adequate to cover all payments issued by the entity.




Utah State Capitol Complex, East Office Building, Suite E310 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-2310 • Tel: (801) 538-1025 • auditor.utah.gov
                                      CITY OF HOLLADAY

                             COUNCIL INTERNAL POLICIES,
                    COMMUNITY TASK FORCES AND COUNCIL COMMITTEES

MEALS/REFRESHMENTS AT COUNCIL MEETINGS

Section 1.1. At the direction of the Manager, meals and/or refreshments may be provided for
Council members and staff for Council meetings, retreats, and work sessions, provided that the
meals and/or refreshments are purchased within appropriate budgeted amounts and in a cost-
effective manner.

CATERING FOR DIGNITARIES AND BUSINESS EVENTS

Section 2.1. When there exists a demonstrable public purpose for the Council to entertain
dignitaries for economic development or other public purposes food or entertainment may be
provided.

Section 2.2.     All such entertainment, meal or refreshment must be purchased within
appropriate budgeted amounts and in a cost-effective manner.

COUNCIL TRAVEL

Section 3.1. Council Members may travel for training to conferences and conventions related
to City business when budgeted and approved by the Council.

Section 3.2. It is the Council’s intent to adopt a budget that will allow (a) travel for no more
than two Council members to attend a semiannual national convention; and (b) travel for all
Council members to attend the Utah League of Cities and Towns’ midyear convention in St.
George and annual convention in Salt Lake City.

COUNCIL MEMBER BENEFITS

Section 4.1. Members of the Council may elect to use their salary to participate in benefits
offered to City employees such as medical, dental, additional group life insurance and “Section
125 Plan” subject to the rules and regulations thereof.

Section 4.2. Council members shall receive $75 quarterly as a mileage allowance to provide
reimbursement for expenses related to performance of their duties.

Section 4.3. Council Members may also participate in the City’s non-contributory retirement
plan elective 401(K)/457 retirement and life insurance plan on the same basis as City employees.


                                                                               Adopted Feb. 6, 2020
                                                                 Amended March 12, 2020 (sect. 4.3)
                                                            Amended March 4, 2021 (sect 14.3 & 23.3)
                                                               Amended February 10, 2022 (sect. 4.2)
                                                             Amended April 6, 2023 (Sec. 4.2 & 10.1)
City Council members who join the Council after July 1, 2011 and who have not previously been
vested as Tier 1 employees in the URS system are not eligible for participation in the URS system.
City Council Members who join the Council after July 1, 2011 and who are vested in Tier 1 system
are also entitled to system contributions on their behalf by the City on the basis set forth in state law
and URS Rules and Regulations.

FILLING A VACANCY ON THE COUNCIL

Section 5.1. Council vacancies shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of Utah Code
Ann. § 20A-1-520, as amended.

Section 5.2. All information submitted by an applicant to fill a vacancy on the Council shall be
public information.

ELECTION OF THE MAYOR PRO TEMPORE

Section 6.1. On an annual basis at its first regular meeting in January following the
swearing-in of any newly-elected council member(s), the Council shall, by a majority vote, select
one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall act as Mayor in the
event that the Mayor is absent, unwilling or unable to serve.

Section 6.2. Election of the Mayor Pro Tempore shall be determined by majority vote.

Section 6.3. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall serve until a successor is elected and satisfies the
requirements set forth herein.

LEGISLATIVE ACTION

Section 7.1. Legislation may be initiated by no fewer than two Council members.

PARTICIPATION ON BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

Section 8.1. Official Council representation on any commissions or boards shall be determined
by the Council. Such Boards include, but are not limited to, the Council of Governments, Wasatch
Front Waste and Recycling and Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement Dist.

Section 8.2. Council Members will be notified of such available position(s) before consensus
selection, in order to allow Council Members adequate time to consider their interest and
availability.

Section 8.3. If the Council is unable to make a consensus selection, representation will be
determined by majority vote. If a majority vote of the full six-member Council cannot be obtained,


                                                                                    Adopted Feb. 6, 2020
                                                                      Amended March 12, 2020 (sect. 4.3)
                                                                 Amended March 4, 2021 (sect 14.3 & 23.3)
                                                                    Amended February 10, 2022 (sect. 4.2)
                                                                  Amended April 6, 2023 (Sec. 4.2 & 10.1)
interested Council Members shall draw lots.

Section 8.4. Members serving on such commissions or boards are encouraged to provide periodic
updates to the Council.

Section 8.5. Council Members serving on such Commissions or Boards should obtain Council
approval before offering an official position of the City on major budget or policy items.

Section 8.6.    When issues arise before the Council that directly or indirectly affect an
organization on whose board a Council member sits, that Council Member shall disclose his or
her involvement prior to debate and vote.

Section 8.7. The Council may establish council committees or task forces for temporary purposes
or studies. No more than three members of the Council may be members or attend the meetings of
such committees or task forces.

NEWSLETTERS

Section 9.1. Newsletters or articles for the newspaper may be prepared and mailed or published
to residents of the City.

Section 9.2. Newsletters shall provide information concerning the City. Reasonable judgment
shall be used with respect to article content, selection and timing of publication. Author by-lines
shall be printed.

Section 9.4. Ultimate editorial control of submissions to the newsletter or newspaper shall rest
with the City Manager.

NEWS MEDIA

Section 10.1. The Mayor is the official spokesperson for the Governing Body. As such, the
Mayor shall provide such information concerning City policy and Council actions as deemed
appropriate. In addition, if the Emergency Operations Committee is established, the Mayor shall be
the official spokesperson for the City.

Section 10.2. When a representative of the media contacts a Council member to request an
interview on an issue that relates to City policy or Council actions to the entire Council, the
following shall apply:

       a.      The interview request shall be directed to the Mayor.

       b.      If the Mayor is not available, the request shall be referred to the Mayor Pro


                                                                                 Adopted Feb. 6, 2020
                                                                   Amended March 12, 2020 (sect. 4.3)
                                                              Amended March 4, 2021 (sect 14.3 & 23.3)
                                                                 Amended February 10, 2022 (sect. 4.2)
                                                               Amended April 6, 2023 (Sec. 4.2 & 10.1)
        Tempore.

        c.    If the Mayor Pro Tempore is not available, the request shall be referred to the City
        Manager.

        d.      If a Council Member, other than the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tempore, agrees to the
        media’s interview request that Council Member must state prior to the interview that he
        or she is not speaking on behalf of the entire Council, but is expressing only his or her
        own opinions or views.


        This policy does not preclude or restrict any member of the Council from presenting
his or her individual opinion.

Section 10.3. It is understood by the Council that generally it is the responsibility of the City
Manager and the executive branch to communicate with the public and news media
concerning events, incidents and situations which occur within the City. The Manager or his/her
designee shall provide such information as is deemed appropriate.

       No other member of the Council may present himself or herself as representing the City
Council unless so authorized by the Council.

STAFF

Section 11.1. Council Member requests for staff assistance or information that is readily
available and requiring less than an hour, are appropriately communicated directly from a Council
Member to staff.

Section 11.2. Council Member requests for staff assistance requiring staff support, research and
more than an hour should be directed to the Manager, who will then assign the matter to the
appropriate staff.

        Implementation of new programs or priorities shall require the assent of the Council.

Section 11.3. Council Members shall not attempt to pressure or influence administrative staff
decisions, recommendations, workloads or schedules.

COUNCIL EXPENDITURE

Section 12.1. The Council shall utilize the purchasing and accounts payable systems and other
internal controls established by ordinance and statute.



                                                                                   Adopted Feb. 6, 2020
                                                                     Amended March 12, 2020 (sect. 4.3)
                                                                Amended March 4, 2021 (sect 14.3 & 23.3)
                                                                   Amended February 10, 2022 (sect. 4.2)
                                                                 Amended April 6, 2023 (Sec. 4.2 & 10.1)
Section 12.2. The Manager is authorized to approve expenditures for the routine budgeted
expenses of the Council, not to exceed $1,000.

Section 12.3. Budgeted expenditures in excess of $1,000, or for non-routine expenses, shall
be presented to, and approved by, the Council.


TRANSITION FOR COUNCIL OFFICE FOLLOWING MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS

Section 13.1. Council Member(s) who are not reelected shall deliver any City-owned
equipment to the Council staff no later than noon on the day that elected officials of the City take
their oath of office. City-owned property includes, but is not limited to, fax machines, laptop
computers, printers, software, office keys, City identification, etc.

Section 13.2. Council Members who are not reelected must meet with the City Recorder to
complete and sign a separation checklist before receiving their final paychecks.

Section 13.3. As soon as practical after the elected officials of the City take their oath of
office, Council staff shall arrange for City-owned property to be distributed to the new Council
Member(s).

FINANCIAL AUDITS

Section 14.1. An independent auditor for the City shall be selected by the Council on a
competitive basis.

Section 14.2. The independent audit shall be performed in conformance with applicable
statutes including, but not limited to, UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 10-6-101, et seq. and 51-2-1, et seq.

Section 14.3 Audit Committee. The Council shall designate an audit committee to work directly
with independent auditors. This Committee shall consist of the Mayor and one other member of
the Council. Ideally, at least one member of the Audit Committee will have a professional
background in finance, accounting, or law. (revised 3-4-2021)


COUNCIL AGENDA MEETINGS

Section 15.1 Typically, an agenda meeting will be held prior to each regularly scheduled Council
and work meeting. The Mayor will establish the schedule for agenda meetings. Those who may
attend agenda meetings include, but are not limited to, the Mayor, Mayor Pro-Tempore, City
Recorder, City Manager, Community Development Director, and City Attorney. Participation
in the agenda meeting may occur by telephone conference. The purpose of the agenda meeting is


                                                                                 Adopted Feb. 6, 2020
                                                                   Amended March 12, 2020 (sect. 4.3)
                                                              Amended March 4, 2021 (sect 14.3 & 23.3)
                                                                 Amended February 10, 2022 (sect. 4.2)
                                                               Amended April 6, 2023 (Sec. 4.2 & 10.1)
to prepare an agenda for the upcoming regular Council or work meeting.

Section 15.2 All items for the agenda meeting must be submitted to the Mayor or City
Recorder the Friday prior to the meeting. Except when approved by the Mayor, items that have
not been submitted prior to the agenda planning meeting will not be considered at the meeting
that is the subject of the agenda meeting.

Section 15.3. Items submitted for formal Council action should include the following:
        Date;
        Subject (brief statement of the subject matter);
        Recommendation (brief paragraph stating the departmental recommendation for Council
        action including an explanation of the origin of the issue, an analysis of the current
        situation, possible alternatives, and the reasoning behind the recommendation);
        Funding (including the amount involved, the source of funds, whether the expense was
        included in the department’s annual budget and a brief statement or the financial impact);
        Contact (specifying a departmental contact person);
        Legal Review (all legal items such as Interlocal agreements, resolutions, ordinances and
        any other necessary items should be reviewed and approved as to form by the City
        Attorney).

Section 15.4 Work meeting. Agendas shall be prepared and set in the same manner as formal
Council meeting agendas.

Section 15.5 Individual Council Members may request that an item be placed on the agenda
of either the Council’s regular meeting or work meeting provided that submission deadlines
are met.

Section 15.6 The Mayor has final approval authority regarding all matters included on Council
agendas, and may postpone an agenda item until a later date.

Section 15.7 In the event that a matter has not been placed on an agenda for discussion or Council
action, if three members request in writing that it be placed on the next available agenda for the
Council’s consideration, the Mayor shall grant such request.

Section 15.8. Agenda Material

       a.      Staff shall, whenever possible, provide Council Members with the relevant meeting
       material including: memos, reports, copies of ordinances, resolutions and agreements within
       a reasonable amount of time prior to the meeting.

       b.      Whenever possible, an electronic and publically available copy of the agenda


                                                                                 Adopted Feb. 6, 2020
                                                                   Amended March 12, 2020 (sect. 4.3)
                                                              Amended March 4, 2021 (sect 14.3 & 23.3)
                                                                 Amended February 10, 2022 (sect. 4.2)
                                                               Amended April 6, 2023 (Sec. 4.2 & 10.1)
       material shall also be published on the City website and State Public Notice website,
       generally within three (3) days prior to the meeting

       c.      Council Members are expected to have read and reviewed all packet materials prior
       to the meeting.

Council Briefing Meeting

Section 16.1. Before each regular Council meeting, there generally will be a briefing session.
The purpose of the briefing session is to give the Council an opportunity to discuss the items as a
group, effectively use Council Members’ time during Council meetings, and help ensure a
uniform understanding in information. The City Manager may be listed on the briefing session
agenda and may use this time to update the Council on agenda items as well as items of mutual
interest and concern. Briefing sessions may also be used by Department heads to update the
Council as in, for example, legislative briefings during the annual legislative session. It is also
appropriate for Council Members to conduct interviews during briefing sessions of audit firms,
potential City employees, and potential City committees and/or board appointees, etc.

COUNCIL MEETING

Section 17.1. The Council shall generally hold two regular Council meetings each month. The
Mayor shall preside at all meetings. All meetings shall be conducted pursuant to Roberts Rules
of Order (latest edition).

Section 17.2. Sidebar or private conversations between Council Members are discouraged
during Council meetings. Only the Mayor, Council Members, City Manager and persons invited
by said individuals may approach the table/rostrum during regular meetings.

Section 17.3. During each regular Council meeting, there will be a time for citizen
comment. The purpose of the citizen comment time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council.
Citizens requesting to address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and
present it to the City Recorder. In general, the Mayor will allow an individual three minutes to
address the Council. Comments that cannot be addressed in that time span should be submitted
in writing for distribution to the entire council. A spokesman, recognized as representing a
group, may be allowed up to five minutes.

        At the conclusion of the citizen comment time, the Mayor may direct staff to assist the
citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative departments; or take
no action.

Section 17.4. At the conclusion of each Council meeting, the Mayor will solicit input from
the Council for items to be placed on the agenda for future meetings and the schedule of those


                                                                                  Adopted Feb. 6, 2020
                                                                    Amended March 12, 2020 (sect. 4.3)
                                                               Amended March 4, 2021 (sect 14.3 & 23.3)
                                                                  Amended February 10, 2022 (sect. 4.2)
                                                                Amended April 6, 2023 (Sec. 4.2 & 10.1)
meetings on the calendar.

COUNCIL WORK SESSION

Section 18.1. The Council generally holds one work session each month. Work sessions are
less structured than regular Council meetings. The sessions are open to the public, but public
input is usually not taken and official decisions are not made. The purpose of these work
sessions is to allow Council Members time for in-depth analysis and review of pending issues.

RESOLUTIONS OF SUPPORT, APPRECIATION AND RECOGNITION

Section 19.1. Requests for resolutions of support, appreciation and recognition are placed on the
Council agenda in accordance with the policy described above. At least three Council members
must support placing resolutions of this type on an agenda.

Section 19.2. When the request is to recognize a City employee, department, contract
provider, citizen or resident for achievement, rather than prepare a resolution the Mayor may
direct staff to write a letter on behalf of the Council, or allow the City Manager to present or
announce an award during a Council meeting.

PUBLIC HEARINGS

Section 20.1. The Council encourages input from the public on major issues impacting the
funding and future of Holladay by holding public hearings as required by law.

        Written submissions will not be accepted and/or considered after a public hearing is closed
unless directed by the Council in an approved motion.

CLOSED MEETING

Section 21.1. In the conduct of City business, the Council intends that their actions be taken
openly and that their deliberations be conducted openly.

Section 21.2.    The Council may hold a closed meeting pursuant to UTAH CODE
ANNOTATED § 52-4-101, et seq.

Section 21.3. It is imperative that all closed meeting discussions remain completely confidential.
Any person attending an executive session shall not disclose confidential information acquired
thereby or use such information for his or another’s private gain or benefit.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST



                                                                                Adopted Feb. 6, 2020
                                                                  Amended March 12, 2020 (sect. 4.3)
                                                             Amended March 4, 2021 (sect 14.3 & 23.3)
                                                                Amended February 10, 2022 (sect. 4.2)
                                                              Amended April 6, 2023 (Sec. 4.2 & 10.1)
Section 22.1. Members of the Council shall disclose actual or potential conflicts of interest
between their public duties and their personal interest as provided in UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-3-
1301, et seq. A sample disclosure form is attached hereto.

Section 22.2. A member of the Council who complies with the disclosure provisions may, in his
or her sole and absolute discretion, vote on the matter which is the subject of the actual or
potential conflict of interest, or abstain from voting or participating in the discussion, or leave
Council chambers during discussion and/or voting.

AMENDMENT, REVISION OR ADDITION TO INTERNAL POLICIES

Section 23.1. Any Council Member may propose amendments, revisions or additions to these
internal policies.

Section 23.2. Each amendment, revision or addition proposed by a Council Member shall be in
written form and copies shall be provided to each Council Member.

Section 23.3. A majority vote of all Council members shall be required for passage and
adoption of any amendment, revision or addition to these internal policies.




                                                                                Adopted Feb. 6, 2020
                                                                  Amended March 12, 2020 (sect. 4.3)
                                                             Amended March 4, 2021 (sect 14.3 & 23.3)
                                                                Amended February 10, 2022 (sect. 4.2)
                                                              Amended April 6, 2023 (Sec. 4.2 & 10.1)
                          2024 Council Retreat Priorities for FY 2024-25
                                Progress through December 2024

Priority One: Safe Community

   •   Continue our relationship with Unified Police Department – relationship with Unified Police was
       solidified with a new interlocal agreement. Staffing challenges still remain, but applications to
       UPD are increasing and we expect staffing challenges to be resolved in the first two quarters of
       calendar 2025.
   •   Provide adequate funding for police and fire services—requests from both UPD and UFA were
       funded at the level requested. In addition, the City has been supportive of additional resources for
       UPD to address mental health challenges in our community.
   •   Prioritize improvements to reduce traffic congestion on Highland Drive – Avenue Consultants
       conducted a more detailed traffic analysis of the proposed reconstruction of Highland Drive and
       the design was updated based on that analysis. In addition, the City secured $1.23 million from
       HB 488 in the 2024 state legislative session to fund future improvements of Highland Drive.
   •   Provide Mental health/substance abuse resources – Mental health and substance abuse resources
       are available on the City’s website. In addition, several QPR courses have been offered in our
       community. One course was offered February 8, 2024, at the Holladay Library, and another was
       offered at City Hall on December 9, 2024.
   •   Expand naloxone access points - Happy Healthy Holladay held a naloxone training at the
       Holladay Library in January 2024 and with the Holladay Youth Council. Kits were also
       distributed at the Annual Night Out Event. The change this year in our conversations with people
       is that more commented that they already had a kit at home. Kits continue to be available no
       questions asked at the Holladay Library.
   •   Ensure resolution of any existing skate park issues – Resident specific skatepark issues have been
       addressed and resolved. Very few resident complaints lodged after mid-summer 2024.
   •   Ensure emergency response capacity for city and residents – The City’s emergency management
       coordinator is working on several plans and is organizing community outreach. Allison
       completed an updated Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, which was adopted by the
       Council. She is organizing training for staff and Council, conducted an evacuation drill for the
       Justice Court, and providing other opportunities to help prepare the City for emergencies. For the
       community, Allison is developing "just in time" kits to train and share with the interfaith groups
       and she is attending more in-person community events to connect and build relationships.
   •   CERT Support Allison is working with a cohort of Salt Lake County cities to create a CERT
       program. The program would not only develop a Holladay CERT team but provide broader
       engagement with the other cities to enrich training opportunities and make staff time more
       efficient.

Priority Two: Excellent Public Assets & Infrastructure

   •   Finalize a plan and funding mechanism for City Hall seismic improvements – work on this plan is
       underway. The Council has had an initial discussion of potential funding sources and mechanisms
       for closing the gap between available funding and project needs. Staff anticipates that the Council
       will have information to make a final decision by March of 2025.
   •   Finalize a plan and funding mechanism for a park at the Spring Lane Elementary site – work on
       this plan is underway. The Council has had an initial discussion of potential funding sources and
       mechanisms for closing the gap between available funding and project needs. Once a lease with
       the school district is finalized in the first quarter of the calendar year 2025, staff anticipates the
       Council will be able to make final programmatic and funding decisions.
   •   Improve our assets with a focus on walkability – Work on the first phase of the 2700 E. sidewalk
       project is nearly complete, and additional work is planned for FY 2025-26. In addition, the City
       successfully applied for a grant to expand sidewalk access along 4500 South, in a short section
       west of Olympus Hills Park.
   •   Continuing road improvements and maintenance – A number of improvements and maintenance
       projects were completed during the summer of 2024. Planned improvements have been
       completed.
   •   Focus on improving active transportation corridors – Holladay’s two active transportation
       projects, 3900 South (in conjunction with Millcreek and South Salt Lake) and I-215 pathway
       from Highland Drive to Knudsen Park, scored very well in recent state funding efforts.
   •   Prioritize maintaining existing facilities/parks & open space at high level. After resolving early
       staffing challenges early in the season, parks have been maintained to a high level.



Priority Three: Responsive, Efficient, Sustainable City Government

   •   Developing a feedback mechanism for government services – City staff are exploring alternatives
       for feedback from residents and do not yet have a recommendation.
   •   Make progress on:
            o Carbon neutrality for city government – Work on this goal has not yet begun.
            o Waterwise landscaping at City Hall City Hall renovation project will provide an
                opportunity to evaluate and potentially include waterwise landscaping at City Hall.
   •   Continue to expand the city’s media presence
   •   Develop key performance indicators for existing City functions, including resident interfaces,
       permit approval time, and business license numbers and approval time. Performance indicators
       have been identified and data is currently being collected.
   •   Ensure fees charged by the City are fair and equitable – Business License fee study is set to begin
       in January. The Council will have the opportunity to reexamine the business license fee structure
       they would like to have in place for City businesses.
   •   Engage at the state and federal level – At a federal level, the City has continued to engage with
       our delegation with the assistance of Ryan Leavitt of Barker Leavitt. We have hosted staff, newly
       elected Representative Mike Kennedy, and are planning a staff and elected official visit to
       Washington DC in March of 2025. The pending FY 2024-25 federal budget includes an
       allocation of $1.65 million, recommended by now Senator John Curtis, for seismic reinforcement
       for City Hall. At the state level, the City is hosting a meeting of our legislative delegation on
       January 9, and continues to work with Dave Spatafore and Ashley Spatafore of Capstone
       Strategies as well as the Utah League of Cities and Towns. During the 2024 state legislative
       session, the City secured $1.
   •   Update the City Code to ensure transparency and readability – City Code update is currently
       underway. Council discussion of Chapters 10 and 11 is planned for January 23.
   •   Communicate infrastructure improvement with our residents – Stories about both stormwater
       improvements and roadway improvements have been shared in the Journal, eblast and on social
       media.
   •   Study possible locations for a conservation garden in the City – Locations for a conservation
       garden at both the Spring Lane site and Knudsen Park have been/are being explored.
   •   Attract and retain top level public servants – City positions are currently fully staffed with top
       level public servants.
Provide Four: Responsible Development that Enhances Community

   •   Create commercial centers that continue a “small town” feel (size, architecture, etc.) – Staff
       continues conversations with residents and developers about commercial centers outside of the
       Village.
   •   Provide Public education /outreach on land use housing issues – Several Holladay Journal articles
       touched on land use housing issues and challenges in Holladay, including articles authored by
       City Council members.
   •   Identify areas for Small Area Master Plans, as part of the General Plan Update – Work began in
       October 2024 on a General Plan Update. As part of this work, additional small area master plans
       may be identified.



Priority Five: Great Place to Live

   •   Expand Concert/Arts offerings during non-summer months - The City is exploring the possibility
       of bringing Big Band Tuesdays to Holladay this season, which could begin as early as June. We
       will also add a Tiny Concert to the Tiny Arts Show. We are also likely to hold a staged play
       reading in May.
   •   Improve experience at summer concerts – Staff continues to explore options to enhance
       experience for residents and performers at the concert series.
   •   Focus on improving active transportation corridors and trails – See above comments as part of
       Priority Two. In addition, Holladay, in conjunction with Cottonwood Heights, help an event in
       May 2024 to highlight trail improvements and new wayfinding signage along the Big
       Cottonwood Trail to help people become more familiar with this beautiful trail.
   •   Continue efforts to activate the Village Plaza area – During this year’s Plein Air event, businesses
   •   More Christmas Lights! Expand electricity to trees and light the Village. – This year’s holiday
       lights included additional lighting at City Hall as well as consistency of lighting “color” – all
       lighting switched to warm vs. cool lighting.
   •   As part of the General Plan update, enhance the definition of “livability” Both the General Plan
       update and the planned 2025 community survey will include exploration of the livability of
       Holladay.
