                               NOTICE OF A MEETING OF THE
                             CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2025

5:00 p.m.       Council Dinner – Council members will be eating dinner. No city business will be
                discussed.

5:30 p.m.       Briefing Session - The Council will review and discuss the agenda items; NO decisions
                will be made


PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a Council meeting
on Thursday, October 2, 2025, at 6:00 pm. Members of the Council may participate by electronic
means if needed. The Council Chambers shall serve as the anchor location.
* Agenda items may be moved in order, sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or linked in this agenda.
Interested parties are encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

Citizens desiring to make public comments or to make comments during any public hearing may provide
such comments as follows:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@cityofholladay.com


                                               AGENDA

I.      Welcome – Mayor Dahle

II.     Pledge of Allegiance

III.    Public Comments
        Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda may provide their
        comment via email to the Council before 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting to
        scarlson@holladayut.gov with the subject line: Public Comment. Comments are subject to the
        Public Comment Policy set forth below

IV.     Public Hearing on Proposed Amendments to Title 7 -Administrative Code Enforcement
        Program

V.      Consideration of Ordinance 2025-17 Amending Title 7 of the City Code Relating to Code
        Enforcement

VI.     Consideration of Ordinance 2025-18 Amending the Budget for the Fiscal Year Beginning July
        1, 2025 and Ending June 30, 2026

VII.    Consideration of Ordinance 2025-19 Amending Title 13.86.020 to add 2052 E Arbor Lane to
        Holladay’s Historic Designation List
VIII.     City Manager Report - Gina Chamness

IX.       Council Reports & District Issues

X.       Closed Session for the Purpose(s) Described in U.C.A. 52-4-204 and 205 (if needed)

XI.      Adjourn




 Public Comment Policy & Procedure: During each regular Council Meeting there will be a Public Comment
 Time. The purpose of the Public Comment Time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council. Citizens requesting to
 address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and present it to the City Recorder. In general,
 the Chairman will allow an individual three minutes to address the Council. A spokesman, recognized as
 representing a group in attendance, may be allowed up to five minutes. Comments which cannot be made within
 these time limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting so
 they can be copied and distributed to the Council. At the conclusion of the Citizen Comment time, the Chairman
 may direct staff to assist the citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative
 department(s); or take no action. This policy also applies to all Public Hearings.



 CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
 I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above agenda notice was
 posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,
 and was emailed to the Salt Lake Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

 DATE POSTED: Monday, September 29, 2025 at 10:00 am
 Stephanie N. Carlson MMC
 City Recorder City of Holladay

         Reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities or those needing language interpretation
      services can be provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at
             least three days in advance. TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2025-17

         AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY AMENDING TITLE 7 OF CITY CODE
                           RELATING TO CODE ENFORCEMENT

       WHEREAS, as previously directed by the City Council, City staff has prepared policy
updates and technical amendments to Title 7 of City Code; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing and has determined that the
proposed amendments will serve the public interest;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Municipal Council of the City of Holladay,
Utah as follows:

        Section 1. Amendment. Title 7 of the City of Holladay Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein
by reference.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or posting
or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.

         PASSED AND APPROVED this __ day of September, 2025.

                                                  HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                  By: ____________________________________
                                                       Robert Dahle, Mayor


[SEAL]                                            VOTING:
                                                  Ty Brewer                  Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Matt Durham                Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Paul Fotheringham          Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Drew Quinn                 Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Emily Gray                 Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Robert Dahle               Yea       Nay ___
ATTEST:

_____________________________
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
City Recorder
TITLE 7
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM
CHAPTER 7.01
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM
SECTION:
7.01.010: Short Title
7.01.020: Purpose
7.01.030: Scope
7.01.040: Existing Law Continued
7.01.050: Criminal Prosecution Right
7.01.060: Effect Of Headings
7.01.070: Severability
7.01.080: Civil Liability
7.01.090: General Rules Of Interpretation
7.01.100: Definitions Applicable To Title Generally
7.01.110: Acts Include Causing, Aiding And Abetting
7.01.120: Service Of Notice Requirements
7.01.130: General Enforcement Authority
7.01.140: Adoption Of Policy And Procedures
7.01.150: Authority To Inspect
7.01.160: False Information Or Refusal Prohibited
7.01.170: Failure To Obey A Subpoena


7.01.010: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT or "ACE"
program. This title shall also be known as title 7 of the code of ordinances of the City. It may
be cited and pleaded under either designation.


7.01.020: PURPOSE:
Code enforcement is vital to the protection of the public health, safety, welfare and quality
of life. Code enforcement is effective only when done quickly and fairly. An enforcement
system that allows a combination of judicial and administrative remedies is effective in
correcting violations.


7.01.030: SCOPE:
The provisions of this title may be applied to all violations of the City Code of the City of
Holladay or applicable state codes which occur within the City limits and such territory
outside the City limits over which the City has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
constitutional provision or law. This title establishes an additional remedy that may be
used by the City to achieve compliance with applicable codes.


7.01.040: EXISTING LAW CONTINUED:
The provisions of this title shall not invalidate any other title, chapter or ordinance of this
code, but shall be read in conjunction with those titles, chapters and ordinances and shall
be used as an additional remedy for enforcement of violations thereof.


7.01.050: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT:
The City shall have sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal judicial case
or pursue an administrative enforcement action for the violation of any of its ordinances or
applicable code requirements. The enactment of this title shall not be construed to limit the
City's right to prosecute any violation as a criminal offense. If the City chooses to file both
administrative actions and criminal charges for the same violation, no civil fees shall be
assessed in the administrative action, but all other remedies contained herein shall be
available.


7.01.060: EFFECT OF HEADINGS:
Title, chapter and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit,
modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of this title.


7.01.070: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion or provision of this title is, for
any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this title.
The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this title and each section,
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion or provision thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, portions or provisions be
declared invalid or unconstitutional. This section shall apply to all amendments made to
this title.


7.01.080: CIVIL LIABILITY:
By establishing performance standards or by establishing obligations to act, it is the intent
of the City Council that the City employees and officers are exercising discretionary
authority in pursuit of an essential governmental function and that any such standards or
obligations shall not be construed as creating a ministerial duty for purposes of tort
liability.


7.01.090: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
For purposes of this title:
 A. "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
  B. Unless otherwise specified, the terms "hereof", "herein", and similar terms refer to this
title as a whole.


7.01.100: DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE GENERALLY:
In the construction of this title, the following words and phrases shall be as defined as set
forth in this section unless a different meaning is specifically defined elsewhere in this title
and specifically stated to apply:
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION: A citation issued to a responsible person which gives
reasonable notice of a violation and the civil fee for such violation.
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING: A hearing held pursuant to the procedures
established by this title and at the request of a responsible person charged with a violation.
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDER: An order issued by a hearing examiner. The
order may include an order to abate the violation, pay civil fees and administrative costs or
any other action as authorized or required by this title and applicable state codes.
CITY: The City of Holladay, Utah, including the mayor, City Manager and all other
employees of the City, excepting employees of the court.
CITY MANAGER: The City Manager or their designee
CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Holladay.
DIRECTOR: The community economic development director or his/her designee.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: Any person authorized by the City to enforce violations for this
code of the City of Holladay or applicable state codes, including, but not limited to, land use
officers, police officers, building inspection officials, code enforcement officers, fire
marshal, fire officers and animal control officers.
HEARING OFFICER: A person appointed by the City Manager or his/her designee to preside
over administrative enforcement hearings. Seems like we use hearing examiner and
hearing officer interchangeably.
IMMINENT LIFE SAFETY HAZARD: Any condition that creates a serious and immediate
danger to life, property, health or public safety.
NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE: A document or form approved by the community development
department director or designee which indicates that a property complies with the
requirements set forth in a notice of violation.
NOTICE OF EMERGENCY ABATEMENT: A written notice that informs a responsible person
of emergency abatement actions taken by the City and the costs of those actions, and
orders payment for those costs.
NOTICE OF ITEMIZED BILL FOR COSTS: A written notice, itemizing the City's costs and
ordering payment of those costs.
NOTICE OF VIOLATION: A written notice that informs a responsible person of code
violations and orders certain remedial steps to correct said violations by a determined
deadline.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization or the manager,
lessee, agent, sergeant, officer or employee of any of them, or any other entity that is
recognized by law as the subject of rights or duties.
PROPERTY OWNER: The record owner of real property as shown on the records of the Salt
Lake County assessor/recorder.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: The person determined by the City who is responsible for causing
or maintaining a violation of this code of the City of Holladay or applicable state codes. The
term "responsible person" shall include, but is not limited to, a property owner, agent,
tenant, lessee, occupant, architect, builder, contractor or other person who individually or
together with another person is responsible for the violation of any provision of this code
of the City of Holladay or applicable state codes.
WRITTEN: Includes handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed or electronic
mail.


7.01.110: ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING AND ABETTING:
Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this title, it shall include causing,
permitting, aiding or abetting such act or omission.


7.01.120: SERVICE OF NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
 A. Methods Of Service: Whenever a notice is required to be given under this title, the
notice shall be served by one of the following methods, unless different provisions are
otherwise specifically stated to apply:
   1. Personal service;
   2. Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of a responsible person;
   3. Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property. The form of the
posted notice shall be approved by the director; or
 B. Failure To Receive Notice: Failure of a responsible person to actually receive notice
shall not affect the validity of any action taken hereunder if notice has been served in the
manner set forth above.
 C. Service Date: Service by regular mail in the manner set forth above shall be deemed
served on the seventh day after the date of mailing when mailed in the continental United
States. Service by regular mail to all other addresses shall be deemed served on the tenth
day after the date of mailing.
  D. Failure To Be Served: The failure of a person, other than a responsible person, to be
served notice in accordance with this section shall not affect the validity of any proceeding
taken hereunder.


7.01.130: GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
Whenever an enforcement official finds that violation of this code or applicable state codes
has occurred or continues to exist, he may undertake any of the procedures herein. The
director or any designated enforcement official shall have the authority to gain compliance
with the provisions of this code and applicable state codes subject to the provisions of this
title. Such authority shall include the power to issue notices of violation and administrative
citations, inspect public and private property, abate nuisances on public and private
property and to use any remedy available under this title or law.


7.01.140: ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES:
The City Manager shall establish policies and procedures for the holding of administrative
enforcement hearings, the appointment of hearing officers, and the use of the
administrative procedures herein by enforcement officials.
7.01.150: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT:
Enforcement officials are hereby authorized, in accordance with applicable law, to enter
upon any property or premises to ascertain whether the provisions of this code or
applicable state codes are being obeyed and to make any reasonable, lawful examination or
survey necessary to determine compliance with this code or applicable state codes. This
may include the taking of photographs, samples or other physical evidence. All inspections,
entries, examinations and surveys shall be done in a reasonable manner. If a property
owner or responsible person refuses to allow an enforcement official to enter property, the
enforcement official shall obtain a search warrant before entering the property.


7.01.160: FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully make a false statement or refuse to give his
name or address with intent to deceive or interfere with an enforcement officer when in
the performance of his official duties under the provisions of this title. A violation of this
section shall be a class B misdemeanor.


7.01.170: FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an
administrative enforcement hearing. A violation of this section shall be a class B
misdemeanor.




CHAPTER 7.02
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
SECTION:
7.02.010: Purpose
7.02.020: Administrative Citations
7.02.030: Contents Of Notice
7.02.040: Civil Fees Assessed


7.02.010: PURPOSE:
The City Council finds that an appropriate method of enforcement for violations of the
Holladay code and applicable state codes is by administrative citation. The procedures
established in this chapter shall be an alternative and in addition to those procedures set
forth in chapter 7.03 of this title.


7.02.020: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS:
  A. Warning Notice: Upon discovering a violation of this code or applicable state codes
that does not require a notice of violation, an enforcement official shall serve a warning
notice, containing the information required in the administrative citation, on the
responsible person providing ten (10) days to correct the violation.
  B. Administrative Citation: If the violation continues on the eleventh day after the
warning notice, an enforcement official shall serve an administrative citation on the
responsible person.
 C. Service: The administrative citation shall be served in the manner prescribed in
section 7.01.120 of this title.
  D. Signature Upon Administrative Citation: The enforcement official shall attempt to
obtain the signature of the responsible person on the administrative citation. If the
responsible person refuses or fails to sign the administrative citation, such failure or
refusal shall not affect the validity of the citation and subsequent proceedings.


7.02.030: CONTENTS OF CITATION:
Each administrative citation shall contain the following information:
 A. The date, location and explanation of all violations;
 B. Code sections violated;
 C. The amount of the civil fee imposed for each violation;
 D. An explanation of how the civil fee shall be paid, the time period in which the civil fee
shall be paid, and the consequences of failure to pay the civil fee;
 E. Identify the right to and the procedures for requesting an administrative enforcement
hearing; and
  F. The signature of the enforcement official and, if possible, the signature of the
responsible person.


7.02.040: CIVIL FEES ASSESSED:
 A. Due And Payable: Civil fees shall be due and payable immediately upon service of an
administrative citation.
  B. Amount Of Civil Fee: The civil fee for each violation listed on the administrative
citation shall be as identified in table 1, civil fees, in the consolidated fine schedule.
 C. Double Fees For Nonpayment: Civil fees shall be double if paid after ten (10) days but
within twenty (20) days of service.
 D. Triple Fees For Nonpayment: Civil fees shall be triple if paid after twenty (20) days
but within thirty (30) days of service.
 E. Payment Of Fee Not Excuse: Payment of any civil fee shall not excuse a failure to
correct a violation or any reoccurrence of the violation, nor shall it bar further enforcement
action by the City.
 F. Payable To City: Civil fees shall be paid to the City.




CHAPTER 7.03
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
7.03.010: Administrative Enforcement Hearings
7.03.020: Request For Administrative Enforcement Hearing
7.03.025: City Requested Administrative Hearing
7.03.030: Notification Of Administrative Enforcement Hearing
7.03.040: Appointment And Qualifications Of Hearing Examiner
7.03.050: Powers Of Hearing Examiner
7.03.060: Procedures At Administrative Enforcement Hearing
7.03.070: Failure To Attend Administrative Enforcement Hearing
7.03.080: Administrative Enforcement Order
7.03.090: Failure To Comply With Order
7.03.100: Appeal Of Administrative Enforcement Decision


7.03.010: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARINGS:
It is the purpose and intent of the City Council that property owners shall be afforded due
process of law during the enforcement process. Due process of law shall require adequate
notice, an opportunity to request and to fully participate in any hearing, and an adequate
explanation of the reasons justifying any resulting action. The following procedures are
intended to establish a forum to resolve and correct violations of this code and applicable
state codes fairly, quickly and efficiently while providing due process.


7.03.020: REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
 A. Filing: A responsible person served with one of the following documents or notices
shall have the right to request an administrative enforcement hearing. Such request shall
be filed within ten (10) calendar days from the date of service of one of the following
notices:
   1. Notice of violation;
   2. Notice of itemized bill for costs;
   3. Administrative citation; or
   4. Notice of emergency abatement.
  B. Notice And Information Provided: Said notice, including all information concerning
the responsible person's right to an administrative enforcement hearing, shall be provided.
 C. Request Filed With City Official: The request for an administrative enforcement
hearing shall be made in writing to the director of community development.
  D. Appointment Of Hearing Officer; Hearing Scheduled: As soon as practicable after
receiving the written notice of the request for an administrative enforcement hearing, the
City Manager shall refer the matter to an appointed hearing officer who shall schedule a
date, time and place for the administrative enforcement hearing.
  E. Failure To Request Constitutes Waiver; Waiver By City: Failure to request an
administrative enforcement hearing within ten (10) calendar days from the date of service
of any of the notices in subsection A of this section shall constitute a waiver of the right to
an administrative enforcement hearing. The right to appeal said failure may be waived by
the City upon showing of good cause.
 F. Failure To Request Hearing: If a responsible person fails to request a hearing after
being issued a notice of violation or administrative citation as provided herein, the
corrective action detailed on the notice of violation shall be considered the administrative
enforcement order pursuant to section 7.02.080 of this chapter.


7.03.025: CITY REQUESTED ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
The City may request an administrative hearing before the hearing officer. The request for
hearing shall be delivered in the same manner as specified in section 7.02.020 of this
chapter. The request shall identify with specifiCity the reasons for the request.


7.03.030: NOTIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
  A. Notice Served: Written notice of the date, time and place of the administrative
enforcement hearing shall be served to the responsible persons as soon as practicable prior
to its date.
  B. Method Of Service: The notice shall be served by any of the methods of service set
forth in section 7.01.120 of this title.


7.03.040: APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS OF HEARING EXAMINER:
  A. Appointment: The City Manager or his/her designee shall appoint a hearing officer(s)
to preside at administrative enforcement hearings.
 B. Qualifications: A hearing officer:
   1. Shall have no personal, financial or other conflict of interest in the matter for which
the hearing is being held;
   2. May be a City employee.


7.03.050: POWERS OF HEARING EXAMINER:
 A. Conduct Hearing: A hearing officer shall have authority to conduct an administrative
enforcement hearing for violations of this Code and applicable State codes.
 B. Continuance Of Hearing: A hearing officer may, for good cause shown by one of the
parties or if the hearing officer independently determines that due process has not been
adequately afforded to such party, continue a hearing.
  C. Subpoenas: At the request of any party to an administrative enforcement hearing, a
hearing officer may sign subpoenas for witnesses, documents and other evidence where
the attendance of the witness or the admission of evidence is deemed helpful or necessary
by the hearing officer to decide issues at the hearing. All costs related to the subpoena,
including witness and mileage fees, shall be borne by the party requesting the subpoena.
 D. Jurisdiction Of Officer: A hearing officer has continuing jurisdiction over the subject
matter of an administrative enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a
continuance; ordering compliance by issuing an administrative enforcement order;
ensuring compliance of that order, which includes authorizing the City to enter and abate a
violation; modifying an administrative enforcement order; or, where extraordinary
circumstances exist, granting a new hearing.
 E. Bond May Be Required: A hearing officer may require a responsible person to post a
cash performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative enforcement order,
but only if agreed to by the enforcement official handling the matter for the City.


7.03.060: PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
  A. Informal Hearing: Administrative enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in
nature. Formal rules of evidence and discovery shall not apply; however, an informal
exchange of discovery may be required. Any such request shall be in writing. Failure to
request discovery shall not be a basis for a continuance. Complainant information is not
required to be disclosed or released unless the complainant is a witness at the hearing. The
procedure and format of the administrative enforcement hearing shall follow general
guidelines of due process and any duly adopted policies and procedures.
 B. Burden Of Proof For Violation: A party alleging a violation of this Code shall bear the
burden of proof to establish the existence of a violation of this Code or applicable State
codes.
 C. Proof Established: Such proof shall be established by a preponderance of the evidence.
 D. Participation And Testimony: Each party shall have the opportunity to cross examine
witnesses and present evidence in support of his case. A written declaration signed under
penalty of perjury may be accepted in lieu of a personal appearance at the discretion of the
Hearing Officer. Testimony may be given by telephone or other electronic means.
  E. Open Hearings; Recording; Location: All administrative enforcement hearings shall be
open to the public and shall be recorded in the manner determined by the City. At the
discretion of the hearing officer, administrative enforcement hearings may be held at the
location of the violation.
  F. Representation: The responsible person shall have the right to be represented by an
attorney. If an attorney will be representing a responsible person at a hearing, notice of the
attorney's name, address and telephone number shall be given to the City at least two (2)
days prior to the hearing. If such notice is not given, the hearing may be continued at the
City's request, and all costs of the continuance shall be assessed to the responsible person.
 G. Defenses: The burden to prove any raised defenses shall be upon the party raising any
such defense.


7.03.070: FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
A responsible person who fails to appear at an administrative enforcement hearing shall be
deemed to have waived the right to such hearing, the adjudication of issues related to the
hearing, and the right to appeal, provided that proper notice of the hearing has been given
as provided in section 7.01.120 of this title.


7.03.080: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDER:
  A. Stipulated Agreement: A responsible person and the City may enter into a stipulated
agreement, which shall be signed by both parties. Such agreement shall be entered as an
administrative enforcement order. Entry of such agreement shall constitute a waiver of the
right to an administrative enforcement hearing and the right to appeal.
  B. Written Order: After all evidence and testimony are presented, the hearing officer
shall issue a written administrative enforcement order within ten (10) days that affirms or
rejects the notice or citation.
 C. Cease And Desist Order: A hearing officer may issue an administrative enforcement
order that requires a responsible person to cease and desist from violating this code or
applicable state codes and to take any necessary corrective action.
  D. Order Of Abatement: A hearing officer may order the City to enter the property and
abate all violations, including the removal of animals that are in violation of applicable code
requirements.
  E. Revocation Of Right To Possess Animals: A hearing officer may revoke an animal
license or the right to possess animals as provided in this code.
  F. Assessment Of Deadlines: As part of an administrative enforcement order, a hearing
officer may establish specific deadlines for the payment of fees and costs, and condition the
total or partial assessment of civil fees on the responsible person's ability to take necessary
corrective actions by the specified deadlines.
  G. Civil Fees: A hearing officer may issue an administrative enforcement order imposing
civil fees in accordance with the consolidated fine schedule. Such fees shall continue to
accrue until the responsible person complies with the hearing officer’s decision and
corrects the violation.
 H. Subsequent Review Hearings: A hearing officer may schedule subsequent review
hearings as may be necessary or as requested by the City to ensure compliance with an
administrative enforcement order.
 I. Bond May Be Required: A hearing officer may order a responsible person to post a cash
performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative enforcement order, but
only if agreed to by the enforcement official handling the matter for the City.
  J. Final Order: An administrative enforcement order shall become final on the date of
signing by the hearing officer.
 K. Order Served: A copy of the administrative enforcement order shall be served on all
parties by any one of the methods listed in section 7.01.120 of this title. When required by
this title, the director shall record the administrative enforcement order with the Salt Lake
County recorder's office.
 L. Monitor For Compliance: After a hearing officer has issued an administrative
enforcement order, the director shall monitor the matter for compliance with the
administrative enforcement order.


7.03.090: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER:
It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to fail to comply with the terms and
deadlines set forth in an administrative enforcement order. A violation of this section shall
be a class B misdemeanor.


7.03.100: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT DECISION:
  A. Petition For Review: Any responsible person adversely affected by an administrative
enforcement order made in the exercise of the provisions of this title may file a petition for
review in the third district court of Salt Lake County.
  B. Time Limit: The petition shall be barred unless it is filed within thirty (30) days after
the administrative enforcement order is final.
 C. Allegations: In the petition, the plaintiff may only allege that the administrative
enforcement order was arbitrary or capricious.
 D. Authority Of Court: The court shall:
   1. Presume that the administrative enforcement order is valid;
    2. Review the record to determine whether the order was arbitrary, capricious or
illegal; and
   3. Affirm the administrative enforcement order if it is supported by substantial
evidence.
  E. Records Submitted To Court: If appealed, the record of the proceedings including
minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a true and correct transcript of the proceeding
shall be transmitted to the reviewing court within thirty (30) days of the notice of appeal. If
the proceeding was tape recorded, a transcript of such tape recording shall be deemed a
true and correct transcript for purposes of this subsection.
  F. Limit Of Court Review If Record Available: If there is a record, court review shall be
limited to the record of the proceeding. The court may not accept or consider any evidence
outside such record unless that evidence was offered to the hearing examiner and the court
determines that it was improperly excluded by the hearing officer. The court may call
witnesses and take evidence if there is no record.
  G. Request For Stay Of Execution: The filing of a petition does not stay execution of an
administrative enforcement order. Before filing a petition, a responsible person may
request the hearing officer to stay an administrative enforcement order. Upon receipt of a
request to stay, the hearing officer may order the administrative enforcement order to be
stayed pending district court review if the hearing examiner finds such stay to be in the
best interest of the City.
CHAPTER 7.04
ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT
SECTION:
7.04.010: Administrative Abatement
7.04.020: Notice Of Violation
7.04.030: Requesting Hearings
7.04.040: Failure To Correct
7.04.050: Inspections
7.04.060: Authority To Abate
7.04.070: Procedures For Abatement
7.04.080: Procedures For Recordation
7.04.090: Notice Of Compliance
7.04.100: Prohibition Against Issuance Of Municipal Permits
7.04.110: Civil Fees


7.04.010: ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT:
Any condition caused, maintained or permitted to exist in violation of any provision of the
Holladay Code or applicable state codes may be abated by the City pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this chapter.


7.04.020: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
  A. Information Included: Whenever an enforcement official determines that a violation of
this code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, a notice of violation
may be issued to the responsible person. The notice of violation shall include the following
information:
   1. Name of the responsible person.
   2. Street address of violation.
   3. Date violation observed.
  4. All code sections violated and a description of the condition that violates the
applicable code.
   5. All remedial action required to permanently correct any violation, which may
include corrections, repairs, demolition, removal or other appropriate action.
    6. Specific date, determined by the director to correct the violation set forth in a notice
of violation.
   7. Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail to comply with
the terms and deadlines as prescribed in the notice of violation, which may include, but is
not limited to: criminal prosecution; civil fees; revocation of permits; recordation of the
notice of violation; withholding of municipal permits; abatement of the violation; costs;
administrative fees; and any other legal remedies.
   8. Statement that civil fees will begin to accrue immediately on expiration of the date to
correct violation.
   9. The amount of the civil fee for each violation and a statement that the civil fee shall
accrue daily until the violation is corrected.
   10. Demand that the responsible person cease and desist from further action causing
the violation and commence and complete all action to correct violations as directed by the
City.
   11. Procedures to request an administrative enforcement hearing, and consequences
for failure to request such hearing.
   12. Statement that when the violation is brought into compliance the responsible
person must request an inspection.
 B. Service Of Notice: The notice of violation shall be served by one of the methods of
service listed in section 7.01.120 of this title.


7.04.030: REQUESTING HEARINGS:
A responsible person shall have the right to an administrative enforcement hearing as
identified in chapter 7.02 of this title. A request for such hearing shall be in writing and
shall be filed within ten (10) days from the date of service of the notice of violation. Failure
to request an administrative enforcement hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver to
an administrative enforcement hearing and a waiver of the right to appeal.


7.04.040: FAILURE TO CORRECT:
It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to fail to comply with the terms and
deadlines set forth in a notice of violation. A violation of this section shall be a class B
misdemeanor.


7.04.050: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the responsible person to request an inspection when a violation has
been corrected. If no inspection is requested, it shall be deemed prima facie evidence that
the violation remains uncorrected. If more than one inspection is necessary, an inspection
fee as specified in title 3, chapter 3.35 of this code shall be assessed for each subsequent
inspection.


7.04.060: AUTHORITY TO ABATE:
The director is hereby authorized, upon a showing of probable cause, to enter upon any
property or premises to abate a violation of this code and applicable state codes as set forth
in section 7.01.150 of this title. The director shall assess all costs for abatement to the
responsible person and may use any remedy available under the law to collect such costs.


7.04.070: PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT:
 A. Abatement By City Personnel Or By Contract: Violations may be abated by City
personnel or by a private contractor acting under the direction of the City.
  B. Enter Upon Private Property: City personnel or a private contractor may enter upon
private property upon reasonable notice and in a reasonable manner to abate a violation as
specified in the notice of violation or administrative enforcement order. In an emergency
situation, the City or its contractor may enter upon private property to abate a code
violation that presents significant imminent risk to public safety or public or private
property. The City shall take reasonable steps to notice a responsible person as soon as is
reasonably practicable concurrent with or after such abatement action.
  C. Abatement By Responsible Person: If a responsible person abates the violation before
the City abates the violation pursuant to a notice of violation or administrative enforcement
order, the director shall nevertheless assess all costs actually incurred by the City against
the responsible person.
 D. Notice Of Itemized Bill For Costs: When abatement is completed, the director shall
prepare a notice of itemized bill for costs.
  E. Service Of Notice; Demand For Payment: The director shall serve the notice of
itemized bill for costs by registered mail to the last known address of the responsible
person. The notice shall demand full payment within twenty (20) days to the City.
  F. Right To Administrative Enforcement Hearing; Time Limit: The responsible person
shall have a right to an administrative enforcement hearing to contest the notice of
itemized bill for costs. A request for such hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
within ten (10) days from the date of service of the notice of itemized bill for cost. Failure
to request an administrative enforcement hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver to
such hearing and a waiver of the right to appeal.


7.04.080: PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION:
For violations of this code or any other applicable code, when a notice of violation has been
served on a responsible person, and the violation remains uncorrected after the date to
correct set forth in the notice of violation, and a request for an administrative enforcement
hearing has not been timely requested, the director shall record the notice of violation with
the Salt Lake County recorder's office.


7.04.090: NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE:
  A. Request For Inspection: When a violation is corrected, a responsible person shall
request an inspection from the director.
 B. Reinspection: When the director receives such request, the director shall reinspect the
property within three (3) days to determine whether the violation has been corrected, and
whether all necessary permits have been issued and final inspections have been performed
as required by applicable codes.
  C. Notice Of Compliance: Within ten (10) days of an inspection of a property which is
subject to a notice of violation in which the officer finds compliance, the director shall serve
a notice of compliance to the responsible person and property owner in the manner
provided in section 7.01.120 of this title if the director determines that:
   1. All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or administrative order have
been corrected;
   2. All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;
   3. All assessed civil fees have been paid; and
   4. All assessed administrative fees and costs have been paid.
  D. Record Notice Of Compliance: The director shall record the notice of compliance with
the Salt Lake County recorder's office if the notice of violation was recorded. Recordation of
the notice of compliance shall have the effect of canceling the recorded notice of violation.


7.04.100: PROHIBITION AGAINST ISSUANCE OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS:
The City shall withhold business licenses or permits for any alteration, repair or
construction pertaining to any existing or new structures or signs on the property, or any
permits pertaining to the use and development of the real property or the structure where
a violation is located. The City shall withhold such permits until a notice of compliance has
been issued by the director. The City shall not withhold permits necessary to obtain a
notice of compliance or to correct serious health and safety violations.


7.04.110: CIVIL FEES:
  A. Specified: If a responsible person fails to correct a violation by the correction date
listed in a notice of violation or in an administrative enforcement order, civil fees shall be
owed to the City as specified in Consolidated Fine Schedule.




CHAPTER 7.05
EMERGENCY ABATEMENT
SECTION:
7.05.010: Emergency Abatement
7.05.020: Procedures


7.05.010: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
  A. Authority Of Director: Whenever the director determines that an imminent life safety
hazard exists in accordance with the international building code, international residential
code and/or the international fire code that requires immediate correction or elimination,
the director shall exercise the following powers without prior notice to the responsible
person:
   1. Order the immediate vacation of any tenants, and prohibit occupancy until all repairs
are completed;
   2. Post the premises as unsafe, substandard or dangerous;
   3. Board, fence or secure the building or site;
   4. Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent further collapse, and
remove any hazard to the general public;
   5. Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any imminent life
safety hazard; or
   6. Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the emergency.
 B. Entrance Upon Property: The director may, based on probable cause, enter property
without a search warrant or court order to accomplish the above listed acts.


7.05.020: PROCEDURES:
 A. Level Of Correction; Costs: The director shall pursue only the minimum level of
correction or abatement necessary to eliminate the immediacy of a hazard. Costs incurred
by the City during the emergency abatement process shall be assessed and recovered
against the responsible person.
  B. Other Remedies: The director may also pursue any other administrative or judicial
remedy to abate any remaining violations.
 C. Notice Of Itemized Bill: After an emergency abatement, the City shall, within ten (10)
days, serve a notice of itemized bill for costs to the responsible person for the abatement
action taken. Such notice shall include a description of the imminent life safety hazard.
  D. Administrative Enforcement Hearing: A responsible person has the right to an
administrative enforcement hearing concerning the itemized billing. A request for such
hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed within ten (10) days from the date of service of
the notice of itemized bill for costs. Failure to request an administrative enforcement
hearing as provided herein shall constitute a waiver to an administrative enforcement
hearing and a waiver to the right of appeal.




CHAPTER 7.06
COSTS AND FEES
SECTION:
7.06.010: Purpose
7.06.020: Assessment Of Costs
7.06.030: Failure To Timely Pay Costs
7.06.040: Allocation Of Civil Fees And Administrative Costs And Fees


7.06.010: PURPOSE:
  A. Recovery: The City Council finds that costs incurred by the City through the actions of
enforcement officials and other City personnel to correct violations should be recovered
from the responsible person.
  B. Appropriate Method: The City Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an
appropriate method to recover expenses incurred for actual costs of abating violations,
reinspection fees, filing fees, attorney fees, hearing examiner fees, title search and any
additional actual costs incurred by the City for each individual case. The assessment and
collection of costs shall not preclude the imposition of any judicial fees or fines for
violations of this code or applicable state codes.


7.06.020: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
 A. Authority: Whenever actual costs are incurred by the City to enforce this code and
applicable state codes, such costs shall be assessed against the responsible person.
 B. Service Of Itemized Bill: The director shall serve the responsible person with a notice
of itemized bill for costs.
 C. Administrative Enforcement Hearing: The responsible person shall have a right to an
administrative enforcement hearing. A request for such hearing shall be in writing and
shall be filed within ten (10) days from the date of service of the notice of itemized bill for
costs. Failure to request an administrative enforcement hearing as provided shall
constitute a waiver to an administrative enforcement hearing and a waiver of the right to
appeal.


7.06.030: FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY COSTS:
The failure of any person to pay assessed costs by the deadline specified in an invoice shall
result in a late fee calculated at the rate of one and one-half percent (11/2%) per month on
the unpaid balances.


7.06.040: ALLOCATION OF CIVIL FEES AND ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS AND FEES:
All fees and costs collected pursuant to this title shall be deposited in the ordinance
enforcement general fund. All fees and costs deposited in the general fund may be allocated
pursuant to the City budget process and as authorized by applicable law.
                                      CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2025-18

         AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BUDGET FOR THE CITY OF HOLLADAY FOR
         THE FISCAL YEAR BEGINNING JULY 1, 2025 AND ENDING JUNE 30, 2026

        WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay has adopted, by ordinance, the budget
for the City for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2025 and ending June 30, 2026, in accordance
with the requirements of the state statute; and

     WHEREAS, the City Manager has prepared and filed with the City Recorder a proposed
amendment to the adopted budget for consideration by the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, said proposed amendment reflects changes in the budget to account for actual
revenues received and expenditures incurred; and

      WHEREAS, the proposed amendments have been duly noticed and a public hearing held on
September 18, 2025; and

      WHEREAS, all conditions precedent to the amendment of the budget have been
accomplished; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council determines that amending the fiscal year 2025-2026 budget is
in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the City of Holladay;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Holladay, Utah as
follows:

        Section 1.    Budget Amendment Adoption. The budget amendments attached hereto as
Exhibit A and made a part of this Ordinance are hereby adopted and incorporated in the budget
of the City of Holladay, Utah for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2025, and ending June 30,
2026, in accordance with the requirements of state law.

        Section 2.     Certification. The City Recorder is hereby directed to have this Ordinance
certified by the City Manager as the City Budget Officer.

       Section 3.     Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon posting.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this __ day of October, 2025.

                                                HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                By: ____________________________________
                                                     Robert Dahle, Mayor
[SEAL]                                           VOTING:
                                                 Ty Brewer                 Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Matt Durham               Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Paul Fotheringham         Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Drew Quinn                Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Emily Gray                Yea        Nay ___
                                                 Robert Dahle              Yea        Nay ___


ATTEST:

_____________________________
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
City Recorder



         DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this __ day of October, 2025.

         RECORDED this __ day of October, 2025.




                                                2
City of Holladay
Proposed Budget Amendment



                                                   FY26 Original                                      FY26 Proposed
General Ledger Account Description                   Budget             Proposed Change              Amended Budget                                Description
General Fund
Revenues
SLco Health Department Grant                             (72,185)                     (66,784)                (138,969) Happy Healthy Holladay Slco grant
       TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
                 ADJUSTMENTS - GENERAL FUND $            (72,185) $                  (66,784) $               (138,969)



Expenditures
Increase in Fund Balance                                 303,800                    (121,685)                 182,114 Decrease in contribution to fund balance
Public Health Programs                                    21,000                      71,969                   92,969 Happy Health Holladay Slco grant
                                                                                                                      Tax sharing agreement with Sequoia prior year greater than
Payment to Sequoia Development                            46,000                       4,000                   50,000 budget
Payment to SLCO for Hotel Loan                            37,500                     112,500                  150,000 SLCO Balloon payment for hotel loan
   TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENDITURE BUDGET
                 ADJUSTMENTS - GENERAL FUND $            408,300    $                 66,784 $                475,083

Grants Fund Fund
Revenues
                                                                                                                        HVAC improvements for City Hall Energy efficiency award
Energy Efficiency Grant                                 (100,000)                    (43,927)                 (143,927) greater than base budget
                                                                                                                        City match of UDOT Highland Drive reconstruction and
Transfer from CP for Highland                                -                      (261,418)                 (261,418) complete street project
Cont from CP 4500 So. Sidewalk                               -                       (67,350)                  (67,350) City match Phase II 4500 So. Sidewalk extension project
                                                                                                                        UDOT reimbursement grant Phase II 4500 So. Sidewalk
UDOT 4500 So. Grant                                          -                      (200,000)                 (200,000) extension project
      TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
                 ADJUSTMENTS - GRANTS FUND $            (100,000) $                 (572,695) $               (672,695)

Expenses
                                                                                                                      HVAC improvements for City Hall energy effeciency award
City Hall Energy Improvements                            100,000                      43,927                  143,927 greater than base budget
Highland Drive UDOT project                                  -                       261,418                  261,418 Highland Drive reconstruction and complete street project
4500 So. Sidewalk Extension                                  -                       267,350                  267,350 Phase II 4500 So. Sidewalk extension project
         TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENSE BUDGET
                    ADJUSTMENTS -GRANTS FUND $           100,000    $                572,695 $                672,695

Capital Projects Fund
Revenues
Appropriated Fund Balance - Previous Cost Offset             -                     (1,800,000)              (1,800,000) Appropriation of prior year cost offset
Appropriated Fund Balance                               (336,469)                  (4,358,768)              (4,695,237) Increase in use of fund balance
        TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
        ADJUSTMENTS - CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND $           (336,469) $                (6,158,768) $            (6,495,237)

Expenditures
Transfer to Grants for 4500 So                               -                        67,350                    67,350
                                                                                                                      Transfer to Grants Fund for Highland Drive complete street
Transfer to Grants for Highland                              -                       261,418                  261,418 project
Bike Lane Maintenance                                        -                        30,000                   30,000 General bike lane maintenance


Transfer to Local Building Authority                         -                     5,800,000                 5,800,000 Transfer to Local Building Authority for City Hall & Spring Lane

   TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENDITURE BUDGET
       ADJUSTMENTS - CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND $                 -      $              6,158,768     $           6,158,768
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2025-19

               AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
               HOLLADAY DESIGNATING THAT CERTAIN PROPERTY LOCATED
               AT 2052 E ARBOR LANE AS A HISTORIC SITE PURSUANT TO THE
               ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY

        WHEREAS, the owner of property located at 2052 E Arbor Lane within the City of
Holladay, has requested that the City Council designate the home as a historic site pursuant to
the City’s ordinances; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Holladay has held a public hearing and finds
that it will serve the public interest and is in the best interests of the property owner and the
residents of the City that property be designated a historic site.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Municipal Council of the City of Holladay,
Utah as follows:

        Section 1.       Adoption and Codification. The City Council of the City of Holladay
hereby finds that the property located at 2052 E Arbor Lane is a historic site within the meaning
of the City’s ordinances and should be designated as a historic site. The provisions of Section
13.86.020(a) of the City Code of the City of Holladay are hereby amended to read in their
entirety as set forth in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference

        Section 2.     Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3.       Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or
posting or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.

         PASSED AND APPROVED this __ day of October, 2025.

                                                 HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                 By: ____________________________________
                                                      Robert Dahle, Mayor


[SEAL]                                           VOTING:
                                                 Ty Brewer                  Yea       Nay ___
                                                 Matt Durham                Yea       Nay ___
                                                 Paul Fotheringham          Yea       Nay ___
                                                 Drew Quinn                 Yea       Nay ___
                                                 Emily Gray                 Yea       Nay ___
                                                 Robert Dahle               Yea       Nay ___
