                                   NOTICE OF A MEETING OF THE
                                 CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                      THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2026

                                Holladay Council Chambers - 3330 S 1300 E

5:30 p.m.         Council Dinner – Council members will be eating dinner. No city business will be
                  discussed.

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a Council meeting on
Thursday, June 4, 2026 at 6:00 pm. Members of the Council may participate by electronic means if
needed. The Council Chambers shall serve as the anchor location.
* Agenda items may be moved in order, sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or in this agenda. Interested parties
are encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

To provide a public comment or make a comment during any public hearing, may do so in the following ways:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@holladayut.gov


                                                      AGENDA

I.       Welcome – Mayor Fotheringham

II.      Public Comments
         Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda may provide their
         comment via email to the Council before 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting to
         scarlson@holladayut.gov with the subject line: Public Comment. Comments are subject to the
         Public Comment Policy set forth below

III.     Public Hearing on Proposed Rezone at 6037, 6048 and 6051 Highland Dr and 1995 E 6060 S
         (changes the zoning designation from R-2-10 (Highland Drive parcels) (residential two-family) and R-1-10
         (6060 S. parcel) (residential single-family) to R-M (residential multi-family).

IV.      Public Hearing on Proposed Budget Amendments for Fiscal Year 2025-2026

V.       Public Hearing on Proposed Fiscal Year 2026-27 Budgets

VI.      Public Hearing on Proposed Changes to the City’s Compensation Schedule for the City’s Elected.
         Appointed and Statutory Officers, including Executive Municipal Officers and all other Municipal Officers
         for the 2026-2027 Fiscal Year

VII.     Public Hearing on Proposed Amendments to the Consolidated Fee Schedule

VIII.    Holladay Staff Service Awards
IX.      Reports
         a. UPD Quarterly Report – Chief Hoyal
          b, UFA Quarterly Report – Capt. Brown
X.        City Manager Report – Gina

XI.       Council Report & District Issues
          a. Calendar
             Council Meetings – June 11, July 16, 2026

XII.      Recess to Work Meeting
          a. Review of Block E Schematic - Gina

          b. Discussion on Public Hearings – rezone, budget amendments

          c. Discussion on Proposed Changes to the Employee Manual - Gina

          d. Sidewalk Management Policy - Gina

          e. Discussion on Tentative Budget
            UPD

             UFA
             Tree Committee
             Non-Departmental
             Unresolved Issues/Budget Changes

XIII.     Closed Session For the Purpose(s) Described in U.C.A. 52-4-204 and
          205

XIV.      Adjourn
 Public Comment Polic & Procedure: During each regular Council Meeting there will be a Public Comment
 Time. The purpose of the Public Comment Time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council. Citizens requesting to
 address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and present it to the City Recorder. In general,
 the Chairman will allow an individual three minutes to address the Council. A spokesman, recognized as
 representing a group in attendance, may be allowed up to five minutes. Comments which cannot be made within
 these time limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting so
 they can be copied and distributed to the Council. At the conclusion of the Citizen Comment time, the Chairman
 may direct staff to assist the citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative
 department(s); or take no action. This policy also applies to all Public Hearings.


CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I certify that the above agenda notice was posted at Holladay City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah
Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,and the Holladay Library.

DATE POSTED: Monday, June 1, 2026 at 11:00 am
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC, City Recorder
City of Holladay




      Reasonable accommodation for individuals with disabilities or those needing language interpretation services
      can be provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at least three
                   days in advance. TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
ZONE MAP AMENDMENT: R-2-10 AND R-1-10 TO R-M
AT 6037 S., 6049 S., 6051 S. HIGHLAND DR. AND 1995 E 6060 S.
Carrie Marsh – Senior Planner

June 5, 2026

Department: Community and Economic Development

Staff Report Type: Planning Commission Recommendation

Action for Council: Legislative action; Amendment to the Zone Map



Decision Type
Legislative. Zone Map amendments are to be reviewed and considered during a public hearing
prior to a motion of final decision/action.

Executive Summary
The applicant, Kasey Kershaw, representing the current property owners of all parcels, is
requesting to change the zone designation of four parcels from their current zones, as
designated below, to the Residential Multi-family (R-M) zone.

     1.    6037 S. Highland Drive (two-family, R-2-10 zone; .30 acres, 13,068 sq. ft)
     2.    6049 S. Highland Drive (two-family, R-2-10 zone; .30 acres, 13,068 sq. ft )
     3.    6051 S. Highland Drive (two-family, R-2-10 zone; .25 acres, 10,890 sq. ft)
     4.    1995 E. 6060 S. (single-family, R-1-10 zone; .39 acres, 16,988.4 sq. ft)

The parcels total 1.24 acres (54,014.4 sq. ft). *Actual survey area may be closer to 1.25 acres (54,4450
sq. ft).

The R-M zone provides flexibility in being able to construct single-family detached units, two-
family attached units, or multi-family attached units. Minimum lot areas by type are as follows:

                                                   R-2-8            R-2-10           R-M

     Minimum lot area:

     Each single-family detached dwelling          5,000 sq. ft.    6,250 sq. ft.    5,000 sq. ft.

     Each unit in an attached two- family          4,000 sq. ft.    5,000 sq. ft.    4,000 sq. ft.




Community and Economic Development - Planning                                                              Page 1
    dwelling

    Each unit in a multi-family dwelling        n/a              n/a             2,722.5 sq. ft.



With 54,014.14 sq. ft of land, the rezone could allow:

    •   10 single family dwelling units
    •   12 twin/attached dwelling units and 1 single family home (7 total structures)
    •   19 multi-family dwelling units (3 or more units per structure; range of 1-6 structures)
            o Area as per survey could increase this to 20 dwelling units

The applicant has conceptually proposed up to 20 dwelling units but acknowledges that various
site development constraints could result in fewer units. The applicant is seeking a layout of a
multi-family structure that would remove three driveway access points on the existing one-way
Highland Drive bypass road and consolidate access for all units to 6060 S.

Eliminating necessary residential access on the Highland Drive bypass would enable the City to
modify the existing one-way bypass road, to increase vehicular safety, reconfigure intersections,
and/or allow for potential conversion to a multi-modal (biking and walking) path with green
space. All future decisions regarding the existing right-of-way would be determined by the City
Council in consultation with the City Engineer.


Recommendation
The Planning Commission has forwarded a recommendation to approve the amendment to the
zone map as proposed by the applicant with a vote of five in favor and two opposed.

The Planning Commission included the following findings in their recommendation:

        1. The proposed amendment is compliant with the Purpose of the Land Development
           Code by promoting and facilitating the orderly growth and development within the
           City of Holladay.
        2. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
           Highland Drive Master Plan
        3. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
           General Plan
        4. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
           development in the vicinity,
        5. As zoning standards in the proposed zone are applied, the proposed amendment is
           not foreseen to adversely affect abutting properties.
        6. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, such as, roadways,
           parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water



Community and Economic Development - Planning                                                       Page 2
            drainage systems, environmental hazard mitigation measures, water supply, and
            wastewater and refuse collection are adequate.




Staff is in favor of the rezone application, as the identified zone has been analyzed to be in line
with multiple goals and policies in the General Plan. A detailed General Plan analysis is provided
as an attachment to this report.


1. Recommendation Overview
The applicant’s proposal to rezone these four parcels is supported extensively by goals and
strategies within the 2025 Holladay General Plan. The R-M zone is considered appropriate due
to proximity to the more intense Holladay Crossroads zone to the south. R-M zoning would
function as a transition of intensity between the HCR zone and less intense R-2 zoning, aligning
with fundamental planning and land use principles that recommend compatible or transitional
intensity land uses between more intense and less intense land uses. Further, zoning that was
put into place over twenty-five years ago is not always the best fit for the current or intended
future context of an area.

Staff analyzed an alternative zoning scenario where the front three parcels were rezoned to R-M
and the parcel on 6060 S. was rezoned to R-2-8 and found that it would result in a difference of
three fewer units within the project. The R-M zone applied to all four parcels gives the property
owner slightly more flexibility in creating a cohesive design as an R-M zone allows more than
two units to be attached in a structure throughout the project. Singular zoning and also creates
simplicity in regulation.

Three additional units is a minor impact and would enable smaller units, in a key location close
to transit and essential commercial services, which helps the City achieve goals of providing a
variety of housing options for current and future residents at a more affordable price. Allowing
more units results in the production of not only more housing units, but housing units that are
naturally smaller due to natural constraints of setbacks and allowed height within the zone.
Additionally, the development proposal enables the City with an option to reconfigure a
roadway that would no longer be needed for access, which could result in outcomes that
improve overall safety for pedestrians and vehicles.

Allowed building heights and setbacks are the same for both the R-M and R-2 zones.


2. Analysis
Staff reviewed both current and historical zoning of the four parcels in addition to surrounding
parcels and the presence of legal non-conforming duplexes on 6060 S.




Community and Economic Development - Planning                                                         Page 3
The three parcels on the one-way segment of Highland Drive are currently zoned as R-2-10 and
all three have enough land area to allow for an attached twin home/duplex on each property.
The landowners could, at any time, add on to or divide the existing structures and rent two units
separately under the existing zone, if they are not doing so already. These types of conversions
are not always utilized by property owners because of individual preferences, costs, or other
significant challenges that come with existing structure, but the rights to use the property in this




way is already entitled under the existing zone and all properties can currently be utilized in this
way.

The parcel that is on 6060 S. is currently zoned as R-1-10. 6060 is a dead-end road that serves a
total of eleven residential parcels and two commercial parcels.

•   Eight residential parcels on 6060 S. are zoned as R-1-10.
        o Four of those eight are legal, non-conforming duplexes/twin homes.
                  Two of the three parcels on the south side of 6060 S. are duplexes; and
                  The two parcels directly to the east of the subject property are two sides of
                     a twin home built in 1987 (an attached home, subdivided into two separately
                     owned parcels).
•   East of the R-1-10 zone on 6060 S. are 3 newer homes that are zoned as R-2-8.


Community and Economic Development - Planning                                                          Page 4
        o   Each lot is over 8,000 square feet and could have been developed as duplexes,
            creating six total units. The developer opted to forgo the allowed density of the
            zone by half.
        o   Owners of these properties do have enough land to split their existing living space
            into two separate legal units, however this may not be feasible or desired as the
            structures that were built may not easily facilitate conversion to two units.

•   East of the three newer homes in the R-2-8 zone is the Cottonwood Village Development,
    twin homes, zoned as R-2-10.
•   North of all four subject parcels, and all of the properties zoned as R-1-10 on 6060 S. is the
    Highland Pointe Village PUD, which is
    zoned as R-2-10. This development
    was approved in 1997.
•   Directly south of 6060 S. is a C-2
    zone, all of which is identified as the
    Holladay Crossroads Small Area,
    created in 2017, allowing any
    properties in the small area plan
    boundaries the ability to rezone to
    the HCR zone.

Historical zoning maps prior to and
shortly after incorporation provide
insight into how the legal non-conforming duplexes were created.

Prior to Holladay’s incorporation in December 1999, Salt Lake County zoning maps show that all
of 6060 S. was zoned as R-2-10H (Figure 1, right).

Highland Point Village was able to be developed under the existing R-2 zoning in 1997.

Initial maps from January 2000 show the south side of 6060 S. retaining R-2-10 zoning while the
north side of the street is R-1-10 (Figure 2, below).
                                              Figure 1




                                           In May of 2000, both
                                           sides of 6060 S. are
                                           shown as R-1-10
                                           (Figure 3, right).




Community and Economic Development - Planning                                                        Page 5
                                     Figure 3




           It is possible that with incorporation there was an idea that Fardown Ave. could connect through
           to 6060 S., however both Fardown and 6060 S. remain as individual dead ends with homes on
           Fardown having a different context than the homes on 6060 S., many of which have always been
           duplexes.

           In summary, R-1-10 zoning on 6060 S. is an island and the existing R-1-10 zoning is somewhat of
           an anomaly. Parcels on all sides of the eight parcels on 6060 S. zoned as R-1-10 are higher
           intensity and half of the properties zoned as R-1-10 on 6060 S. do not conform to the zone.

           While the 1995 E. 6060 S. parcel is designated as low density residential on the future use map,
           the overall context of 6060 S., in addition to the longer-term history and current non-
           conforming uses, does not align with a low-density residential future land use.

           It is due to this context, in addition to the application of planning principles that recommend
           transitioning zoning from high intensity to lower intensity, and guidance from multiple portions
           of the General Plan that the applicant, with the guidance and support of professional planning
           staff, has proposed the RM zone for all four parcels.


           Attachments
               •   General Plan analysis detailing related goals and policies in support of this rezone
               •   Zone map
               •   Aerial view of parcels and vicinity
               •   Applicant narrative and supporting documentation


           Fiscal Impact
           The rezone leaves the option to the City to alter the existing bypass lane, which could come with
           some financial impact for any alterations and future maintenance. The bypass lane could also
           continue to be maintained in its current form with existing maintenance costs.
Figure 2

              Suggested Motion
           [Suggested motion notes.]




           Community and Economic Development - Planning                                                       Page 6
GENERAL PLAN APPLICATION/ANALYSIS:
Implementing zone regulations to anticipate growth needs/goals is an important land use
decision. As a legislative action, this decision is guided by the community standards in the City of
Holladay General Plan and is supported by Title 13 of the Land Use Ordinances of Holladay. The
General plan was updated in 2025 and involved significant community input and through multiple
forms of community engagement. The general plan takes the desires of the larger community
across various ages, socioeconomic statuses, and businesses into consideration and translates
what was heard by the community into a visioning document.

The General Plan acknowledges the challenge of balancing growth for the future with maintaining
the small-town character that draws people to Holladay. It addresses and provides goals for
transportation of all types, housing, water, the local economy, and growth.

This section highlights specific elements within the General Plan. The public and Commission is
encouraged to review the document available on the City’s website in addition to exploring the
online portal linked within the General Plan document.

HOLLADAY GENERAL PLAN (2025)
Chapter 2: Future Land Use (map: page 29; medium density residential category: page 36; low
density residential)

        Description Medium Density: “This land use category accommodates a mix of housing types
        with access to major roadways, goods and services, and pedestrian connections to commercial or
        public spaces. These areas maintain key characteristics that make Holladay unique, including
        contiguous tree canopy, quality landscaping, and parks. This category is not intended to support
        mixed land use types, but these areas are naturally located near commercial and mixed-use nodes
        that can serve denser populations.”

                     •    7-20 units per acre, R-1-4, R-2-8, R-2-10, RM

        Description Low Density: “This land use category supports low-density residential
        neighborhoods whose distinct design characteristics reflect the decades of patchwork development
        that makes the City so unique. Generally, these neighborhoods have limited connectivity with
        surrounding neighborhoods and are not immediately accessible via major roadways. They may
        have strong internal pedestrian connections, especially to parks and schools except where historic
        development and limitations to road infrastructure make these connections challenging. Uses are
        limited to low density residential and civic uses including schools and parks that make
        neighborhood spaces to grow and gather. These areas have historically supported small scale
        commercial and higher density housing that are dispersed throughout neighborhoods. While the
        future land use is anticipated to be primarily low residential density these uses should be allowed
        to continue but only to the scale and extent that they have existed in neighborhoods historically.”

                     •    2-6 units per acre, R-1-21, R-1-15, R-1-10, R-1-8



Community and Economic Development - Planning                                                                 Page 8
        Areas of Opportunity- Directly adjacent to Holladay Crossroads (page 49)

                 “Each neighborhood in Holladay has a distinct character. These neighborhoods emerged
                 over decades of development and each pocket of the City contains elements of different
                 eras, showing that incremental change. The scale and unique elements in these
                 neighborhoods should be maintained but infill should be readily allowed, with careful
                 consideration for the existing development pattern, especially the height and scale of new
                 buildings. Infill development is intended to closely align with the scale and quality of
                 existing neighborhoods but may include additional density or changes in uses that do not
                 significantly alter the surrounding neighborhoods and should preserve pockets of non-
                 conforming higher density residential where they already exist.”

Chapter 3: A City with Distinct Character (page 51)

        Land Uses: “…most of the City is residential and single-family homes dominate taking up almost
        63% of the area. Medium density and multi-family housing represent a smaller 8% of the City. …
        The land uses highlight the City’s strong residential character and limited commercial footprint,
        which has implications for housing diversity, economic development, and land use balance.
        Holladay residents continue to support and relate to their residential neighborhoods and prefer
        smaller mixed-use nodes that support local or smaller scale businesses.”

        Urban Design Characteristics: “a key component of the Vision. Community feedback emphasized
        a strong desire to preserve Holladay’s historic charm and small-town feel, which includes resistance
        to over development, high-density housing, and building scale that is out of sync with existing
        community character. Residents consistently advocate for development that respects the scale and
        character of existing neighborhoods, favoring small to medium-sized buildings that blend with the
        community’s established look and feel. … Within public spaces, feedback emphasized enhancing
        walkability and pedestrian infrastructure. Requests for more sidewalks, safe walking paths, and
        improved pedestrian safety reflect a community-wide goal to make Holladay more connected and
        accessible.”

        DC GOAL 1: Reinforce Holladay’s established neighborhood character.

                 DC Policy 1.1. Prioritize compatible development patterns in existing residential areas,
                 while acknowledging trade-offs when changes occur.

                 DC Policy 1.3. Maintain the established development pattern and neighborhood character
                 by guiding the scale and form of new construction to reflect the existing context.

                 DC Policy 1.4. Support the creation and improvement of public green spaces and
                 community gathering areas within all neighborhoods to foster neighborhood identity and
                 connection.

        DC GOAL 2: Guide new construction and renovations to contribute positively to the visual
        and functional quality of the City.

                 DC Policy 2.2. Ensure site design considers privacy, light access, and transitions or buffers
                 between different land uses.




Community and Economic Development - Planning                                                                    Page 9
         DC GOAL 3: Sustain and enhance natural features and green infrastructure.

                  DC Policy 3.1. Prioritize enhanced sustainability practices of mature trees, preservation of
                  open spaces, and effective landscape buffers that contribute to neighborhood identity.

         DC GOAL 4: Support community-oriented design through the creation of gathering
         spaces and shared amenities.

                  DC Policy 4.1. Encourage the integration of plazas, courtyards, and small parks into
                  development projects.

                           DC Action 4.1.i. Identify opportunities within parks and other public spaces where
                           these may be developed and prioritize potential improvements based on park
                           visitation, feasibility of development, potential funding or partnerships for
                           improvements, and other relevant factors.

                  DC Policy 4.2. Promote flexible spaces that support community events, recreation, and
                  informal gathering.

                           DC Action 4.2.i. Identify underserved neighborhoods for prioritized investment in
                           new public gathering spaces.

Chapter 4: A City of Quality Neighborhoods (page 57)
“This section outlines strategies that will guide the City in supporting housing opportunities for a range of
income levels while reinforcing the qualities that make Holladay unique. These approaches include exploring
zoning adaptations, expanding housing diversity, enhancing transportation and commercial linkages, and
encouraging context-sensitive development.”

         Current Housing Stock: “Holladay’s housing is also significantly larger than other housing units
         in Salt Lake County. On average, a single-family home in Holladay is nearly two times the size of
         the average in the County. The size and quality of Holladay’s housing stock and its desirable central
         location make Holladay more expensive than surrounding cities. … Over the last decade,
         development has continued to skew toward both detached single-family and apartments with
         relatively fewer middle options (like duplexes, condos and townhomes, and other housing types)”

         Housing Affordability and Attainability: : ”According to the 2023 ACS 5-Year Estimates, the
         median home price in Holladay has escalated to $700,000, reflecting a 45% increase since 2010.
         Rising property values and the scarcity of affordable housing are emerging as major challenges.”

         Housing Gaps: “Holladay currently needs an additional 1,800 affordable housing units to meet
         the needs of low- to moderate-income households. This shortage not only affects current residents’
         ability to remain in the community but also influences who can move into Holladay. Community
         feedback has emphasized concerns about whether younger generations will be able to afford to
         live in Holladay as adults, given rising housing costs and trends toward building higher-end units. …
         Housing development and planning efforts must respond to both the current shortfall in affordable
         units and the projected demand as the population continues to grow.”

         QN GOAL 1. Provide the opportunity for housing adapted to different ages, lifestyles, and
         incomes.


Community and Economic Development - Planning                                                                    Page 10
        QN GOAL 2. Accommodate new housing by allowing flexibility within Holladay’s existing
        residential neighborhoods that both addresses the existing neighborhood character and
        allows for incremental changes.

                 QN Policy 2.1. (Strategy F): Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate-income
                 residential development commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment
                 corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers. §10-9a403(2)(b)(iii)(F)

        QN GOAL 3 . Facilitate housing development and preservation in the City’s mixed-use
        centers, encouraging new housing in areas that can provide for daily needs within
        walking distance.

                 QN Policy 3.1. (Strategy H): Amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking
                 requirements for residential development where a resident is less likely to rely on the
                 resident’s own vehicle, such as residential development near major transit investment
                 corridors or senior living facilities. §10-9a- 403(2)(b)(iii) (H)

Chapter 5: Walkable and Connected Community (page 67)
“Holladay prioritizes enhancement of the existing transportation network to incorporate bicycle,
pedestrian, and transit connections that unite regional destinations and the City’s gathering
spaces, businesses, neighborhoods, and recreation”.

        CC Goal 5: Support sustainable growth through compact, mixed-use, and transit-friendly
        development as identified in the Future Land Use Map.

                 CC Policy 5.1. Incentivize compact, mixed-use development along key corridors and near
                 transit stops to encourage walkability and reduce vehicle trips.

        Public Transit and Regional Connections: “The transit system in the Salt Lake Valley is
        connected, requiring collaboration between agencies and surrounding cities. Agencies including
        UTA and WFRC have extensive plans for transit expansion and development surrounding transit
        corridors that have the potential to more efficiently connect the entire valley to key destinations”.

        Active Transportation: “The City’s ongoing focus on walkability, trails, and bicycle infrastructure
        is expanding recreational options in meaningful ways. Throughout the planning process, residents
        expressed a strong and consistent desire to enhance connections for pedestrians and cyclists
        between neighborhoods and beyond.”

        Holladay’s Pedestrian Network: “The primary goal of the City’s Pedestrian Network is to
        improve walkability and connectivity among neighborhoods, schools, parks, places of worship,
        commercial centers, places of employment, commerce, education, recreation, housing and other
        local destinations to ensure the safety, health, and comfort of pedestrians throughout Holladay. …
        The City’s Pedestrian Network is intended to support the development of walkable centers in
        important locations throughout the City. This goal requires the development of pedestrian
        connections within and outside of key areas of activity”

        Pedestrian Priority Areas: “1. Within Mixed-use nodes 2. Near schools and public parks 3.
        Neighborhood pedestrian connections”


Community and Economic Development - Planning                                                                   Page 11
      Major Corridors: “Highland Drive: Recent planning initiatives, such as the Holladay Crossroads
      Zone, aim to transform portions of Highland Drive into a more pedestrian-friendly environment
      with mixed-use developments”

      CC GOAL 1 . Design, operate, and maintain streets that are safe, comfortable, and
      welcoming for all users, including people walking, biking, rolling, riding transit, and
      driving.

              CC Policy 1.1. Incorporate Complete Street design principles on the primary City roadway
              network to improve safety and comfort for pedestrians, bicyclists, transit riders, and
              drivers.

              CC Policy 1.3. Improve high-crash locations with data-driven improvements such as
              crosswalk enhancements, traffic calming, and intersection redesign.

              CC Policy 1.4. Prioritize Safe Routes to Schools and community locations to create
              connections to safe and direct walking and bicycle routes which will provide safety
              benefits for all residents, benefitting children and families.

      CC GOAL 3. Create a seamless transportation network that links neighborhoods to
      community destinations.

              CC Policy 3.2. Eliminate gaps in pedestrian and bicycle networks within a comfortable
              walking and biking distance of parks, schools, civic spaces, and community facilities.

                       CC Action 3.2.i. Identify and address pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure gaps
                       within a half mile radius of parks, schools, and civic facilities. Incorporate
                       infrastructure needs into the annual budget and regular capital improvement
                       program (CIP) planning.

              CC Policy 3.5. Improve transit service and connectivity in areas with strong ridership
              potential and connections to housing, education, employment, recreation, and shopping.

      CC GOAL 4. Create a high-quality public realm with attractive, accessible, and safe spaces
      for everyone.

              CC Policy 4.1. Expand the City’s sidewalk network prioritizing areas lacking pedestrian
              infrastructure or with high pedestrian potential.

                        CC Action 4.1.i. Identify zones lacking pedestrian infrastructure, then prioritize
              projects in areas with the highest pedestrian potential.

                       CC Action 4.1.ii. Identify specific neighborhoods where sidewalks are not
              present and identify feasibility of sidewalk installation in these areas.

              CC Policy 4.2. Encourage wide sidewalks with a landscape buffer, where possible, that
              support City-preferred tree species on pedestrian-priority corridors as identified in the
              network vision map. Encourage wider sidewalks in higher traffic areas.



Community and Economic Development - Planning                                                                Page 12
                         CC Action 4.2.i. Require 6ft minimum sidewalks, landscaping buffers, and dark
                         sky-friendly pedestrian-scale lighting for new developments along pedestrian-
                         priority corridors. Provide cross sections and/or design manuals to developers.

                CC Policy 4.3. Enhance character elements that improve the aesthetics and functionality
                of major corridors such as landscaping, public art, and undergrounding utilities.

                CC Policy 4.4. Support development patterns that activate the streetscapes, including
                buildings fronting sidewalks, mixed-use zoning, and accentuated street crossings.

                CC Policy 4.5. Safely manage vehicle access to promote walking, biking, and transit in
                activity centers.

        CC GOAL 5. Support sustainable growth through compact, mixed-use, and transit-friendly
        development as identified in the Future Land Use Map.

                CC Policy 5.1. Incentivize compact, mixed-use development along key corridors and near
                transit stops to encourage walkability and reduce vehicle trips.

                         CC Action 5.1.i. When aligned with the policy direction in the Quality
                         Neighborhoods Chapter, offer density bonuses for developments located within a
                         quarter mile of a transit stop that also provide transit-accessible and pedestrian-
                         friendly design elements, such as pathways for direct transit access or bicycle
                         infrastructure such as secure bicycle lockers.

Chapter 6: A Strong Local Economy (page 85)

Holladay Crossroads: “The Holladay Crossroads area is the second largest economic district within
the City by gross sales, generating $26 million in 2023. Food and beverage businesses, including
grocery stores, are the primary drivers in this area. Holladay Crossroads also has redevelopment
potential located at a key intersections between Highland Drive and I-215.”

Highland Drive “The Highland Drive small area is the third largest economic district within the City
by gross sales, generating $23 million in 2023. Within the area, food service is the number one
sales generator followed closely by repair and maintenance businesses. This district is one that
may see change within the life of the plan because of underutilized properties, planned
improvements to Highland Drive, and its proximity to growth in the adjacent City of Millcreek.”

        LE GOAL 1. Collaborate to enhance existing commercial property values and promote
        new development while maintaining neighborhood stability.

                LE Policy 1.3. Continue to support existing neighborhood development patterns and
                incremental density increases to maintain Holladay’s unique character.

                         LE Action 1.3. ii. Consider allowing additional density in transition areas
                         surrounding the City’s most active nodes, especially Holladay Village, Holladay
                         Crossroads, and Holladay Hills. Additional housing units in these areas are




Community and Economic Development - Planning                                                              Page 13
                         located to allow for more active transportation to commercial nodes, potentially
                         strengthening businesses and providing opportunities for affordability.

                LE Policy 1.4. Enhance connectivity from Holladay’s residential neighborhoods to its
                primary commercial nodes to promote accessibility, increase trip-chaining, and sales
                capture.

Chapter 8: Responsible Renewal and Infill (page 103)
“Holladay is committed to growing thoughtfully balancing the needs of a dynamic, evolving
community with the values that make it a desirable and livable place. As infill and redevelopment
opportunities arise, it is essential that new growth integrates cohesively with existing
neighborhoods, enhances community character, and supports long-term sustainability.”

        RI GOAL 1. Maintain the overall established pattern and quality of development in the
        City.

                RI Policy 1.1. Maintain and update standards for new development that include high
                quality layouts and sustainable tree canopy, provide connectivity to local amenities, are
                energy efficient and provide amenities for current and future residents of Holladay.

                RI Policy 1.2. Support infill and redevelopment projects that enhance and protect
                surrounding neighborhoods.

                         RI Action 1.2.i. Encourage and support redevelopment projects that provide
                         accessible neighborhood/community amenities, such as local and regional trail
                         connections, public plazas or gathering spaces, pedestrian access to public or
                         commercial activity centers, or development of public open space.

                         Responsible Infill Action 1.3.i. Establish, enhance, and maintain appropriate
                         land use, architectural and/or landscape buffers to protect neighborhoods from
                         encroachment where uses transition or have incompatible characteristics.




Community and Economic Development - Planning                                                               Page 14
                  SUBJECT PROPERTIES



6037 S Highland


6051 S Highland   1995 E.
                  6060 S.

6049 S Highland
                                                                                                                           Rezone R-2 and R-1 to R-M




                                                                                       H ighland Dr



                                                                                                                                                      Di am ond Hills Ln
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Diamond Hills L n
                               br   uc k Way
                          Inns
                   ay
               W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Emeral d Ridge Cv
          ck




                                                                                                                                                                           Ruby Ridge Cv
     ru
sb
                                                                                                       Highla nd D r
                                                                                la n d Dr
                                                                               Hig h

                                                                                                            High land Dr
                                     Hi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E 606 0 S
                                      gh
                                        la
                                          nd
                                               Dr

                                                                         Hig




                                                                                                                                                 E 6060 S                                                             E 6060 S
                                                                             hlan
                                                                              d Dr


                                                                                               r
                                                                                        nd D
                                            Bi g Co tto nw oo




                                                                                    Hig h l a
                                             d Ta nn er M i d d l e D




                                                                                                                            Big Cot tonw ood Tan ner Mid
                                                                                                                                                           dle Ditch                       Big Cott o nwood Ta n n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     er Middle Ditch
                                           i tc h




                                                                                                  Hig hlan d Dr
                                                                        Dr
                                                             land




               4/17/2026
                                                   High




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1:1,027
                        Parcel Boundaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0          0.01           0.01                             0.03 mi

                                                                                                                                                                                                      0              0.01        0.03                             0.05 km

                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sources: Esri, TomTom, Garmin, FAO, NOAA, USGS, (c)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            OpenStreetMap contributors, and the GIS User Community,
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Salt Lake County, Microsoft, Vantor
                                                                              Rezone R-2 and R-1 to R-M

                           H ig hland Dr
         Hig hla nd Dr




                                                                                                                                               Ruby Ridge Cv
                                                                                        d Hills Ln
                                                                                        on
                                                                                        m
                                                                                 D ia
                                Hi ghl and Dr




                                                           Diamond Hills Ln
                                  Highland Dr
                                           Hig hla nd Dr




                                                              E 6060 S                  E 6060 S                   E 6060 S                                    E 6060 S
Hig
 hlan




                           Dr
                          land
  d Dr




                         High




4/17/2026
                                                                                                                             1:513
                Parcel Boundaries
                                                                                                          0            0          0.01                             0.02 mi

                                                                                                          0     0.01       0.01             0.02 km

                                                                                                              Sources: Esri, TomTom, Garmin, FAO, NOAA, USGS, (c)
                                                                                                              OpenStreetMap contributors, and the GIS User Community,
                                                                                                              Salt Lake County, Microsoft, Vantor
Project Description.

The intent of this project is to redevelop the 4 existing lots (currently Zoned R-2) into a new
townhome project, requiring RM Zoning. The units will be sold o individually to enable
new homeownership in Holladay City.

Adjacent Zoning to the South allows for very high density (5 stories). 6060 South has
current R-2 zoning for the subject property, as well as new construction builds on the East
end of the Street. The adjacent property to the East of subject parcels is a twin home… very
similar to proposed development for this site. There are duplexes and rental homes on
6060 South. Adjacent property to the North is a medium density PUD project, Diamond
Hills. The request to change zoning from R-2 to RM would create an excellent transition
zone between the very high-density zone to the South, and lower density to the North.



Parcels to include:

6037 S Highland Drive

6049 S Highland Drive

6051 S Highland Drive

1995 E 6060 S

TOTAL SIZE: 1.25 acres.



Residents on 6060 South and the homeowners in the adjacent project to the North (Diamond
Hills Subdivision) have ingress / egress issues caused in large part by the speed of tra ic
heading North on the one lane bypass road that fronts 6037 / 6049 / 6051 S Highland Drive
homes. The proposed project will eliminate the drive approaches from these homes onto
Highland Drive. By removing those access points, Holladay City is then able to eliminate the
one lane bypass road in front of these homes. This will allow Holladay City to restructure
tra ic ﬂows around the current pocket park island and ﬁx access issues plaguing 6060 South
and Diamond Hills Residents. The suggestion is to incorporate this abandoned section of
Highland drive with the existing pocket park to create an attractive, useable, dramatic
entrance to Holladay City on the South end of town, thereby creating a new walkable and
bike-friendly section of the City. This enables the developer of the proposed project to retain
the large trees on the West boundary of the project, providing shade for the park and a more
attractive entrance. Trees will be limbed, trimmed, beautiﬁed, and maintained by developer.
                                PARK CONCEPTUAL IDEA




Holladay City would design the park to their spec, but hopefully neighbors in the area would
have some say in the matter. Eliminating this section of Highland Drive and enhancing the
park will be a huge beneﬁt to Diamond Hills homeowners and residents on 6060 South.
Basic townhome specs:

2,300-2,600sf.

2-4 bedrooms each.

More useable main level living options for buyers.

2 car garage each.

Less than 30’ max height.

Private yards for each unit.

Higher quality ﬁnishes than current townhome projects in the city.

Village design, in line with Holladay standards.

Access o 6060 South. Center isles with rear load garages, hidden from the street.

1.25 acres allows for up to 20 townhomes. Design constraints may dictate less.



Pricing:

It is anticipated that the townhomes will sell for approximately $850-880,000 each.



GOALS:

Fix tra ic patterns in the area. Create a more dramatic and beautiful entrance to
Holladay City. Build high quality townhomes with “village” design. Provide new
homeownership opportunities in Holladay City.



Design Images:
Carrie Marsh

From:               Dina Roberson
Sent:               Tuesday, April 21, 2026 10:54 AM
To:                 Carrie Marsh
Subject:            Opposition to Proposed Zoning Change from R 2-10 to R-M

Categories:         Public Comments



[External Email - Use Caution]

Dear Members of the Planning Commission,

I am writing to formally oppose the proposed zoning change from R 2-10 to R-M for the parcel adjacent to our
neighborhood located at 6037 – 6051 Highland Dr. and at 1995 E. 6060 S.

This request raises serious concerns regarding traffic safety, infrastructure capacity, neighborhood compatibility, and
overall community impact. Taken together—especially in combination with nearby development, this proposal
represents a level of density that the current area is neither designed nor equipped to support.

    1.     Traffic Safety and Hazardous Access Conditions

Traffic conditions in this area are already unsafe. Vehicles travel at high speeds along Highland Drive, and residents
entering and exiting our neighborhood routinely experience near-miss situations when attempting to enter traffic.

The road serving our development is narrow and visibility is limited. On a weekly basis, I and others experience
situations where it is difficult and unsafe to safely pull in or out.

Adding a 24-unit, three-story development—on top of the nearly completed 83-unit project nearby—will
significantly increase traffic volume and alter traffic patterns in a way that will make exiting our neighborhood even
more dangerous, and potentially unmanageable during peak times.

There is no feasible way to widen or significantly improve this roadway. Without meaningful infrastructure upgrades
that do not make it travel worse (such as closing off this flow), this proposal will exacerbate an already unsafe
situation and increase the likelihood of accidents.

    2.     Infrastructure Constraints and Cumulative Impact

This proposal cannot be evaluated in isolation. The cumulative impact of multiple high-density developments on a
constrained road network is substantial.

The addition of another 24 units, combined with the nearby 83-unit development, will place demand on
infrastructure that already lacks the capacity to support current and anticipated use. This includes:

   •     Roadway capacity
   •     Traffic flow and access
   •     Emergency response times

Approving this zoning change risks creating long-term infrastructure strain without viable mitigation options.

                                                           1
       3.      Inconsistency and Lack of Transparency

The developer previously communicated to our HOA that the project would consist of approximately 12 units. The
current proposal now reflects 24 units—double the originally stated density.
This significant change raises concerns about the reliability of information presented to both residents and the
Commission. Decisions of this scale should be based on consistent, transparent, and accurate representations.

    4.       Incompatibility with Existing Neighborhood Character

The current R 2-10 zoning reflects the intended density and character of this area. Transitioning to R-M zoning
introduces a scale and intensity of development that is not compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.

A three-story, 24-unit structure adjacent to lower-density homes creates a clear mismatch in:

   •        Building height and mass
   •        Population density
   •        Parking demand and congestion
   •        Noise and activity levels

Zoning changes should reinforce, not disrupt, the established character of residential communities.

    5. Light Pollution and Privacy Impacts

A multi-story development will introduce significant light spill into adjacent homes from parking areas, exterior
lighting, and elevated residential units.

This will negatively impact residents’ ability to enjoy their homes, reduce nighttime privacy, and alter the character
of the neighborhood environment—particularly given the increased height and proximity of the proposed structure.

    6.       Property Value Concerns

Homeowners in this neighborhood made purchasing decisions based on the existing zoning, infrastructure, and
density. A substantial increase in density—without corresponding improvements—can negatively affect the
desirability and value of surrounding properties.

    7.       Public Safety and Service Demand

Higher-density developments increase population concentration, which in turn increases demand on public services,
including law enforcement and emergency response.

In an area already constrained by limited road access, this raises legitimate concerns about:

   •        Emergency vehicle access and response times
   •        Increased service demand without infrastructure support
   •        Overall neighborhood safety and livability

These impacts are particularly concerning given the cumulative growth already underway in this immediate area.

For the reasons outlined above, I respectfully urge the Planning Commission to deny the requested zoning change
from R 2-10 to R-M.

At a minimum, this proposal should not be considered without comprehensive, independent analysis of:
    • Traffic and access safety (including turning movements onto Highland Drive)
                                                            2
    •   Infrastructure capacity and cumulative development impact
    •   Lighting and neighborhood compatibility impacts

The current proposal places an unreasonable burden on an already constrained area and introduces
avoidable safety and quality-of-life risks for existing residents.

Given the existing constraints and the scale of development already underway in this area, the proposed zoning
change cannot be responsibly evaluated without a comprehensive, independent analysis of its cumulative impacts.

At a minimum, the following must be completed before any consideration of approval:

    •   Traffic and Access Safety Analysis: A professional traffic study evaluating current conditions and projected
        impacts, including turning movements onto Highland Drive, sight distance, vehicle speeds, queueing, and
        safe ingress/egress from adjacent neighborhoods.
    •   Infrastructure Capacity and Cumulative Impact Study: An assessment of roadway capacity, emergency
        vehicle access, and the combined impact of this proposal alongside the nearby 83-unit development and any
        other planned or approved projects in the area.
    •   Lighting and Neighborhood Compatibility Review: A detailed evaluation of building height, placement, and
        exterior lighting to assess light spill, privacy impacts, and consistency with surrounding residential character.

Short-Term Recommended Actions (Prior to Any Approval)

To ensure public safety and responsible planning, I respectfully request that the Commission:

    1. Defer any zoning decision until the above independent studies are completed and made publicly available.
    2. Require a traffic impact study by a third-party engineer, not solely developer-provided analysis.
    3. Conduct a site-specific safety review of Highland Drive access points, including real-world observation of
       peak traffic conditions.
    4. Evaluate cumulative development impacts, rather than reviewing this proposal in isolation.
    5. Consider interim safeguards, such as limiting density, building height, and unit count until infrastructure
       capacity can support additional development.

Thank you for your time, consideration, and commitment to responsible community planning.

Sincerely,

Dina Roberson
6008 S. Ruby Ridge Cove
Holladay, UT 84121




                                                            3
Carrie Marsh

From:              Shelley Mangum
Sent:              Wednesday, April 22, 2026 12:53 PM
To:                Carrie Marsh
Subject:           Proposed Rezone

Categories:        Public Comments



[External Email - Use Caution]
Ms. Marsh,

I hope this message finds you well. I am writing to share my strong opposition to the proposed rezoning of the
properties at 6037, 6049, and 6051 Highland Drive, as well as 1995 East 6060 South, which would allow for the
construction of 18-20 townhomes instead of the originally planned 12. I believe the current zoning is
appropriate, especially considering both the nature of the existing roadway and the 83-unit apartment/condo
building nearing completion just 2-3 blocks south. Additionally, the Holladay Hills development, less than two
miles north, is already contributing a significant number of new residential units, including townhomes, to the
area.

My primary concern centers on the increased traffic this project would generate, especially when combined
with the nearby 83-unit development. The single-lane road serving Highland Pointe Village, where I live, is
already hazardous due to high-speed, high-volume traffic. Adding more residents would exacerbate these
risks, heightening the danger as we slow down to enter our neighborhood and increasing the likelihood of
rear-end collisions. Tragically, there have been fatal accidents in this area in the past.

I am also worried about a potential rise in crime, as our community already feels crowded and additional
housing could strain law enforcement, resources, and local infrastructure. Lastly, the introduction of more
housing units threatens the privacy and tranquility that current residents value.

Thank you for considering my perspective. I hope you will weigh these concerns carefully and, at the very
least, address roadway and traffic issues before approving further housing in this area.

Best regards,

Shelley Mangum
6019 Diamond Hills Lane




                                                        1
April 22, 2026


Dear Ms. Marsh,
My name is Carmen Diaz, and I live in the Highland Point Village, just north of
the proposed site for rezoning. Those properties include 6037, 6049, and 6051
Highland Dr. and 1995 E 6060 S. At our original meeting with Kasey Kershaw,
we were told he wants to build 10-12 townhomes, followed by the decision for
18-20 townhomes, which I imagine, more as he accumulates more property. I
am adamantly opposed to any of what Mr. Kershaw is proposing.
I assume the planning commission is well aware of the traffic problems we
must endure daily, and this is before the 83-unit apartment complex is
complete and ﬁlled with tenants. Entering and exiting Diamond Hills Lane is
difficult and dangerous each time, due to the excessive speed people drive
down Highland where it meets Van Winkle, as well as the inordinate number
of vehicles in the area. There is a deﬁnite mismatch between higher-density
building and traffic planning in the area, only adding to the congestion and
dangerous situations.
The one lane area of Highland Drive already cannot accommodate 83 more
units and people trying to exit their underground parking, 6060 S, and those of
us trying to enter and exit Diamond Hills Lane, not to mention those trying to
get in and out of the gated subdivision on the west side of Highland. Slowing
down to enter Diamond Hills Lane, as people are traveling at high rates of
speed, only invites a rear end collision, to add to the other traffic accidents of
the past.
I am hopeful the city will NOT allow any further high density building in the
area until the city has ﬁgured out a way to handle the traffic in an already
congested area. Therefore, it is my hope that those properties involved will
remain in the R-2-10 and R-1-10 zones.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Carrie Marsh

From:             TIM KRISTY FOX
Sent:             Wednesday, April 22, 2026 6:39 PM
To:               Carrie Marsh
Subject:          Public Comment Strongly Opposing Proposed Zone Change and Development

Categories:       Public Comments



[External Email - Use Caution]

Dear Ms. Marsh,


I am writing to submit my formal public comment regarding the proposed zone change
for the properties located at 6037, 6049, and 6051 Highland Drive, and 1995 E. 6060 S.,
from R-2-10 and R-1-10 zones to the R-M zone.


I strongly oppose this project.


Traffic conditions along Highland Drive and the surrounding neighborhood are already
strained and, at times, unsafe. Approving additional high-density zoning (20-40 units,
previously10-12) in this area will significantly worsen congestion, increase delays when
entering and exiting neighborhoods, and elevate the risk of accidents. Residents already
experience difficulty navigating this corridor during peak hours; further intensification is
not appropriate for this location.


This situation is about to be exacerbated by the high-density apartment development
consisting of 83 units that is expected to begin impacting traffic within the next month.
That project alone will place substantial pressure on Highland Drive and will directly
affect residents’ ability to safely and reliably leave the neighborhood. Proceeding with
yet another high-density development before the real-world traffic impacts of the 83-unit
project, just south of our development, are even understood is irresponsible and short-
sighted.


In addition, higher-density development inevitably leads to parking overflow. Increased
on-street parking will reduce visibility, create safety hazards, and impede access for
emergency vehicles. These are not minor inconveniences—they are serious public safety
concerns.
                                                    1
The proposed rezoning will also place added strain on existing infrastructure, including
road capacity, utilities, and public services, none of which appear adequately prepared for
this level of increased demand.


Equally important, this proposal is fundamentally inconsistent with the established
character of the neighborhood. This area has long been defined by low-density residential
use, and a shift to R-M zoning represents a significant and incompatible change that will
negatively impact the livability and expectations of current residents.


For these reasons, I urge the Planning Commission and City Council to reject this
proposal. At a minimum, no additional high-density approvals should be considered until
the full traffic and infrastructure impacts of the pending 83-unit development have been
evaluated and addressed.


Thank you for your time and consideration.


Sincerely,
Kristy Fox
1991 E. Diamond Hills Ln.
Holladay, UT 84121




                                             2
Carrie Marsh

From:             Kathleen Norton
Sent:             Wednesday, April 22, 2026 7:14 PM
To:               Carrie Marsh
Subject:          Proposed zone changes

Categories:       Public Comments



[External Email - Use Caution]

Dear Ms. Marsh,

I am a resident of Highland Pointe Village and would like to address the proposed zone change to the
property to our south. In the 22 years I have lived here, the traffic has obviously increased because of all
of the buildings up and down Highland Drive. However, it has become dangerous, making the exit from
Diamond Hills Lane to Highland Drive scary. With the proposed development next door, plus the 83-unit
apartment complex soon to be completed, it will only add to the congestion and danger. I am strongly
opposed to any more high density building, especially with the faulty traffic flow in our area.

Thank you for your consideration.

Kathy Norton
6017 Ruby Ridge Cove
Holladay, Utah




                                                      1
Carrie Marsh

From:             Tim Fox
Sent:             Wednesday, April 22, 2026 7:20 PM
To:               Carrie Marsh
Cc:
Subject:          Opposition to Proposed Zone Change and Development

Categories:       Public Comments



[External Email - Use Caution]

Dear Carrie Marsh,
I am writing to formally express my opposition to the proposed zone change and
associated development referenced in the recent notice regarding properties on Highland
Drive.
I am a long-term resident of Holladay and a disabled veteran. I take great pride in this
community and have a strong interest in preserving the quality of life, safety, and
infrastructure stability that residents depend on.
My primary concerns center on the significant strain this development would place on
existing infrastructure, which I believe is already operating near capacity:

Infrastructure Concerns
Sewer and Utilities
   • Increased density will add substantial load to aging sewer systems and utility
     networks
   • Risk of system overcapacity, backups, and costly future upgrades borne by
     residents
Stormwater Management
   • Additional impervious surfaces will increase runoff and drainage challenges
  • Potential for localized flooding and environmental impacts if not properly
     mitigated
Traffic Congestion
   •   Highland Drive and surrounding roads already experience significant congestion
   •   Added residential density will worsen traffic flow, increase delays, and impact
       safety for drivers, pedestrians, and cyclists
Community
                                                      1
   •   The proposed change from lower-density zoning to higher-density residential (R-
       M) represents a substantial shift in neighborhood character
   •   This type of development may not align with the established nature and
       expectations of long-term residents

Personal Perspective
As a disabled veteran, accessibility, safety, and predictability of infrastructure are
especially important to me. Increased congestion, strain on services, and potential
disruptions could have a direct and meaningful impact on my daily life and well-
being.

I respectfully urge the Planning Commission and City Council to:
   •  Carefully evaluate the capacity and readiness of infrastructure systems
   • Require comprehensive impact studies and mitigation plans
   • Consider the long-term effects on existing residents before approving any zoning
      changes
At this time, I strongly encourage you to deny or significantly reconsider this proposed
zone change.

Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely,

Timothy Fox
1991 E Diamond Hills Lane
Long-Term Holladay Resident
Active Voter and Tax Payor in the Community




                                             2
Carrie Marsh

From:              Daniele Gatti
Sent:              Thursday, April 23, 2026 11:48 AM
To:                Carrie Marsh
Cc:                Nancy Kau
Subject:           Highland Drive Proposed Rezone

Importance:        High

Categories:        Public Comments



[External Email - Use Caution]

Ms. Marsh,

I hope this message finds you well. I am writing to share my strong opposition to the proposed rezoning of the
properties at 6037, 6049, and 6051 Highland Drive, as well as 1995 East 6060 South, which would allow for the
construction of 18-20 townhomes instead of the originally planned 12. I believe the current zoning is
appropriate, especially considering both the nature of the existing roadway and the 83-unit apartment/condo
building nearing completion just 2-3 blocks south. Additionally, the Holladay Hills development, less than two
miles north, is already contributing a significant number of new residential units, including townhomes, to the
area.

My primary concern centers on the increased traffic this project would generate, especially when combined
with the nearby 83-unit development. The single-lane road serving Highland Pointe Village, where we live, is
already hazardous due to high-speed, high-volume traffic. Adding more residents would exacerbate these
risks, heightening the danger as we slow down to enter our neighborhood and increasing the likelihood of
rear-end collisions. Tragically, there have been fatal accidents in this area in the past.

I am also worried about a potential rise in crime, as our community already feels crowded and additional
housing could strain law enforcement, resources, and local infrastructure. Lastly, the introduction of more
housing units threatens the privacy and tranquility that current residents value.

Thank you for considering our perspective. I hope you will weigh these concerns carefully and, at the very
least, address roadway and traffic issues before approving further housing in this area.

Daniele and Nancy
6011 S Diamond Hills Ln




                                                       1
Carrie Marsh

From:               Stacie Pearce
Sent:               Friday, April 24, 2026 12:59 PM
To:                 Carrie Marsh
Subject:            Building plans 6065 south highland

Categories:         Public Comments


[External Email - Use Caution]

Hey there !
My name is Stacie Pearce and I own and operate renew rx which is in the same building as Diamond Custom
Jewlers
I am writing to say I am in full support of any building plans of the much needed renovated housing to the north of
our building.
Thank you!!!
Stacie Pearce, NP
Renew Rx
6065 S Highland Dr.




                                                          1
     



*2()'(),12'/&)2,2  2 2 !$&2)2 2
'%($,$12&')*2, 2&/2-!$2!*2,,2
2%2/)2'2,)'-2,2()'('*$2 2.2
*&2 2.2&2,2%12 $',!'&2')2 2 1)*2
&2.2*&2,2*-!.!*!'&2)'**2,2
*,),2-!$,2 ,2*-!.!*!'&212,2()'('*2
$',!'&2-!$,2&2.)12$!,,$2&/2*!*2
,,2&1/)2$'*2 2  2 ()'(),!*212
%12-!$!&2-))&,$12,'2,2&'),2)2-2
12*')*2 2)2!*2,,),!&2
'%$**2&2$''#*2$!#2!,2!2 21)*2'2
2'/&)2*-(($!2%!22,'2,2
,&&,*2)&,!&2 '21+2'&2&/2
'&*,)-,!'&2 2*,),2  2!*222&2
,'2 2)&2&/2'%*2,2,2&2 $*'2
*'%2-!$,2,!)2'%+2,12)2!&2 2 %2
-&/)2'2  2).%(!&2&1,!&2')2
,!*2,'2((&2-,2,2&/2-!$2&,)!*2&2
0!,*2,'2,2()'('*2'&'*2 -)2
()'(),!*2&2,'2*,12**!$2,'2  2
2"-*,2)2!&!*!&2-(2.!&2)'*2*-,2
'2&2'&2 ')2 21)*2/!$2 $)2(,*2 /)2
-!$,2 2*2()'(),12'/&)*2)2&2
'%'/&)*2)2-&)*,&2,'2,2/,2
/2.2*&2()'('*2,'2,#2($2 !,2
$.*2  2/!,2,2&,)12&20!,2')2,2
()'(),12 '/&)*2'&2  2*2')2,2&/2
'&*,)-,!'&2
!&&2Z&
!%'&*2#-*,'%2*/$)*
  22!$&2)

Carrie Marsh

From:              Cottonwood Garage
Sent:              Tuesday, April 28, 2026 8:42 AM
To:                Carrie Marsh
Subject:           6037, 6049, 6051 Highland Dr. & 1995 East / 6060 S

Categories:        Public Comments


[External Email - Use Caution]

As the owners of Cottonwood Garage, located at 2049 East 6200 South, we endorse the new build ideas of
a parking garage or condos at 6037, 6049, 6051 Highland Dr. and 1995 East and 6060 South. The (2)
properties currently there are huge eye sores and don’t appear to be properly maintained. We believe it is
in the best interest of the community of Holladay.

--
Kindest regards,

Scott Johnson & Amy Anastasion-Johnson
Business Owners
Cottonwood Garage
2049 East 6200 South
Holladay, Utah 84121
(801) 278-1432
www.cottonwoodgarage.net




                                                        1
Carrie Marsh

From:               Paul
Sent:               Saturday, April 25, 2026 11:07 AM
To:                 Carrie Marsh
Subject:            Re: Highland Pointe HOA

Categories:         Public Comments

 > [External Email - Use Cau on]

   Hi Carrie,
 > My name is Paul Kno and I live in the Highland Pointe HOA on 6010 S Diamond Hills drive. In our HOA mee ng there
 were several concerns about rezoning that you are discussing on April 28th, but the largest concern is about traﬃc. We
 would like to understand if there has been a full traﬃc study and what the proposed traﬃc solu on will be a er adding
 all of this housing. Wee live t every day trying to exit our neighborhood and the dangers of cars speeding down the one
 way street sec. on of Highland Drive. We would ask that this be completed and a solu on and investment from the city
 agreed upon prior to issuing the rezoning. I am fearful someone is going to be killed on that road with the new
 apartments coming to comple on and this new proposed addi onal townhomes with more people and cars entering
 and exi ng highland drive.
 >
 > Thank you!
 > Paul Kno
 > 891-651-1115

 6010 S Diamond Hills Ln
 Holladay UT 84121
Carrie Marsh

From:                         Jay Mirrafie <jmirrafie@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Monday, April 27, 2026 11:39 AM
To:                           Carrie Marsh
Subject:                      Re: Support for Mr. Kershaw's Project on Highland Dr

Categories:                   Public Comments

[External Email - Use Caution]


Hello Ms. Marsh,
My name is Jay Mirrafie, and I own the property at 6049 S Highland Dr. I am
writing to express my support for Mr. Kershaw’s project.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
6049 S Highland Dr Holladay, Utah 84121




Thank you,
Jay Mirrafie, GRI, CCIM
Real Estate Advisor
RP Commercial
Realtypath-Preferred
801-558-8900
jmirrafie@gmail.com
The highest compliment my clients can give me is the referral of their friends & family.
Good Thoughts, Good Words, Good Deeds
Carrie Marsh

From:              Angie Meredith
Sent:              Monday, April 27, 2026 11:27 AM
To:                Carrie Marsh
Subject:           Re: Rezoning comment Meeting 4/28

Categories:        Public Comments



[External Email - Use Caution]




Hello,

I am writing to you from the 19 home PUD community to your north.
I have met with Kasey Kershaw the developer of this proposal.
I am thrilled that he wants to clean up this area on the corner with the three houses 6037, 6049, and
6051 Highland Dr. it has been a mess for years. The properties are not well kept. Fences have caved in,
the trees are overgrown, branches are growing into the street.

I support the development, with two concerns:

1. Traffic coming out of our street, Diamond Hills Lane, 6060 South onto Highland and the construction
that will be taking place.

2.The construction of the 83 unit apartments to our south was poorly maintained, often pieces of plastic
and debris from cite would blow out onto Highland Dr.

I am in favor of this proposal, I am still not clear if these townhomes are to rent or for sell to
own. How many townhomes?

Thank you,

Angie Meredith
2005 E. Diamond Hills Lane
Holladay, UT 84121
Highland Pointe Village HOA
Landscaping
Carrie Marsh

From:              Dan Lawler
Sent:              Monday, April 27, 2026 11:21 AM
To:                Carrie Marsh
Cc:                Kasey Kershaw
Subject:           Zoning Change 6037, 6049, 6051 Highland Dr.

Categories:        Public Comments



[External Email - Use Caution]
Carrie Marsh,

My wife and I are homeowners in the Highland Point PUD. We are aware of a potential development
requiring a zoning change on the south boarder of our PUD. We have lived here since 2011. The three
rundown homes to the south of our entrance have been an eye sore. We have requested that they maintain
their landscaping and have complained to the city. The home at 6037 S. Highland had a tree that was cracking
our concrete fence, and he refused to cut it down. Our HOA paid to have it taken down and had to pay him
for a replacement. It was cheaper than taking him to court. They also park vehicles on the lawn. I retired from
being a Realtor after 30 years and believe the current properties are lowering the value of our homes.

 The proposals I have seen from Kasey Kershaw with IDI Real Estate will do a number of things for our PUD.
The development will remove a number of eye sores properties, slow down traffic, by the city vacating to
current bypass road and creating a small park like entrance to the city of Holladay. The development will also
add more homeowners rather than renters to our area.

We are in favor of the proposed development of townhouses.

6018 Emerald Ridge Cove
Holladay, UT 84121
801-560-9427




                                                       1
April 25,2026

To: Holladay City Planning Commission

From: Joni Wilson (1995 E. 6060 So)

Re: IDI Real Estate development, Highland Drive and 6060 South



I have been a Holladay resident for the past 34 years and have witnessed a lot of growth in our
cherished little nook nestled at the foot of the Cottonwood Canyons. Some of the growth has
been by design and some of it has just been happenstance, coupled with the upsurge in general
growth across the Wasatch front and Utah in general. I recall as a child shopping at the old
Cottonwood Mall and later as a young adult, even working at the Cottonwood Mall, and now it
is a site for modern development with multipurpose design. In Holladay, I like to think that we
hold our community up to a standard of excellence in many ways; excellence in the building
developments, our care and keeping of our free spaces and with the businesses that serve our
community.

This standard seems to hold true in the plans that IDI Real Estate has for our small little area
bordering Highland Drive and 6060 South. When we ﬁrst purchased our home and plot of land,
it came with a blue book dating back to the original land deeds, showing that originally our
home sat on a plot of land that belonged to Wilford Woodruﬀ and he had sold it to his ﬁrst wife
for $1. This always reminded me of the historic legacy of the small piece of land that I have
cared for and tended for the past 34 years. Now, IDI Real Estate stands ready to further edify the
legacy of my plot of land and make it newly updated with housing to serve incoming residents
as well as a small green space. IDI is also looking at the impact on traﬃc, lifestyle and aesthetics
of our area and seems to be planning for a development that will both update and beautify one
of the main southern access routes into Holladay along Highland Drive.

While I am deeply sentimental about passing over my little plot of land, I believe I am passing it
into the right hands and project that will both honor the city of Holladay and the legacy of the
area.

Sincerely,

Joni Wilson
Carrie Marsh

From:               Hunter Bergamasco
Sent:               Saturday, April 25, 2026 6:21 PM
To:                 Carrie Marsh
Subject:            Re: Concerns about re-zoning

Categories:         Public Comments




> [External Email - Use Cau on]
>
> Hi,
>
> I am a homeowner in the Willows of Holladay and have many concerns about the proposed re-zoning. The area around
Highland and Van Winkle is already so congested it’s diﬃcult for me to get in my community. To avoid having to cut
across double yellow lines I’m already forced to go down through other neighborhoods and make a u-turn because none
of the streets down Highland actually loop back to same road. Many accidents occur here because so many people cut
across the double yellow lines to get to their homes. In addi on to there being no center turn lanes the sidewalks in this
area are very dangerous and right on the road. Moreover there aren’t any bike lanes in the area. Adding high density
housing and commercial developments will only exacerbate the problems. There is a brand new apartment complex
opening right next to these lots and we haven’t even seen the impact of this increased popula on, how are we already
considering adding even more people? Normally I would be a fan of increasing available housing but this is just adding
more people into an already congested area without the proper infrastructure.
>
> Thank you,
>
> Hunter Bergamasco
  6004 S Albertville Pl
  Holladay UT 84121




                                                            1
Carrie Marsh

From:               Kasey Kershaw
Sent:               Tuesday, April 28, 2026 2:53 PM
To:                 Carrie Marsh
Cc:                 Jonathan Teerlink
Subject:            Re: Support for Proposed development



[External Email - Use Caution]


From: Kasey Kershaw
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2026 2:44 PM
To: Carrie Marsh ; Jonathan Teerlink
Subject: Fwd: Support for Proposed development

[External Email - Use Caution]

Kasey Kershaw
IDI REAL ESTATE
Mobile: (801)953-6004



---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Rob Jones <
Date: Tue, Apr 28, 2026, 2:35 PM
Subject: Support for Proposed development
To: Kasey Kershaw


Hello Kasey,

I am writing to express my support for the proposed development currently under review.
I believe this project aligns well with the city’s long-term vision and will provide
meaningful benefits to the community, while accommodating growth, enhancing
property values, and overall livability.




Sincerely,
Rob Jones
6037 S Highland Dr



                                                           1
From:          Carmen Diaz
To:            Stephanie Carlson
Subject:       Proposed Rezone
Date:          Saturday, May 30, 2026 7:42:36 PM




[External Email - Use Caution]

My name is Carmen Diaz and I live at 6007 S. Ruby Ridge Cove in Highland Pointe
Village. My hope is that the City Council will actually take the time to read the emails
sent to them and that this is not a lesson in futility, as the Planning Zone meeting
was. It was very apparent that the committee already had made their decision before
hearing any comments. Afterall, had they listened to their constituents, they would
not have voted the way they did. (Thank you to the two members who cared and
voted nay). So, maybe Holladay City simply does not care. Maybe money, money,
money is their only driving force catering to developers who are only interested in
making their money, despite the hardship this will bring onto those of us already in an
established neighborhood. Welcome to Sugar House.

It was laughable listening to some on the committee talking about how Highland Drive
can handle all of the traffic that flows, dangerously, in our area. When was that last
traffic review done? Years ago? What will it take, besides more accidents and deaths
for the city to understand that there is a definite mismatch between higher-density
building and traffic planning in the area??

I assume the City Council is well aware of the traffic problems we must
endure daily, and this is before the 83-unit apartment complex is complete
and filled with tenants. Entering and exiting Diamond Hills Lane is difficult
and dangerous each time, due to the excessive speed people drive down
Highland where it meets Van Winkle, as well as the inordinate number of
vehicles in the area.

The one lane area of Highland Drive already cannot accommodate 83
more units and people trying to exit their underground parking, 6060 S, and
those of us trying to enter and exit Diamond Hills Lane, not to mention
those trying to get in and out of the gated subdivision on the west side of
Highland. Slowing down to enter Diamond Hills Lane, as people are
traveling at high rates of speed, only invites a rear end collision, to add to
the other traffic accidents of the past. And it should be very interesting as
those at the apartments take off slowly from underground parking, make a
sharp right turn, to be met by drivers going 50 mph driving north on
Highland. But I guess the city wasn't concerned about that either when
they agreed to that.  
Holladay used to be the city that cared about their constituents, cared
about the quality of life, cared about the beauty, the trees, etc. Now it
appears that they only care about developers and the money they will
bring to the city. I suppose this is why Kasey Kershaw talked as though he
had it in the bag, saying how everyone on the City Council was for it, and
making it sound like the city would ever do anything about the horrendous
traffic pattern we must endure daily, always holding our breaths, hoping
not to be rear ended or t-boned.

I am adamently opposed to the rezoning for the 1.24 acres!! I think it is
time for the Holladay City Council to start listening to their constituents. If
not, why pretend and hold meetings???  
From:            Dina Roberson
To:              Stephanie Carlson
Subject:         Re: Proposed Zoning Change — 6037–6051 Highland Dr. and 1995 E. 6060 S.
Date:            Friday, May 29, 2026 12:01:27 PM




[External Email - Use Caution]

Dear Members of the Planning Commission,

I am writing again in opposition to the proposed zoning change from R 2-10 to R-M for the
parcel located at 6037–6051 Highland Dr. and 1995 E. 6060 S.

I submitted detailed written comments prior to the previous hearing. Those concerns — covering
traffic safety, infrastructure capacity, neighborhood compatibility, and cumulative development
impact — were not substantively addressed at that meeting. I am respectfully asking this body to
engage with the specific issues raised here rather than treating resident concerns as procedural
rather than substantive. These are real safety and quality-of-life issues that deserve a real response
before any approval is granted.

1. The Independent Studies Requested at the Prior Hearing Have Not Been Completed

At the previous hearing, residents requested that the following independent analyses be
completed before any vote:

       A professional traffic impact study evaluating current conditions, projected impacts,
       turning movements onto Highland Drive, sight distance, vehicle speeds, queueing, and safe
       ingress and egress from adjacent neighborhoods
       An infrastructure capacity and cumulative impact study assessing roadway capacity,
       emergency vehicle access, and the combined effect of this proposal alongside the nearby
       83-unit development
       A lighting and neighborhood compatibility review evaluating building height, placement,
       and exterior lighting impacts on adjacent residents

To my knowledge, none of these studies have been completed or made publicly available.
Proceeding to a vote without them is not responsible planning — it is precisely the kind of
incremental approval that creates long-term problems the City and its residents are left to manage
after the fact.

I respectfully ask that no decision be made on this proposal until these studies are complete,
independent, and publicly available for resident review.

2. Highland Drive — Awareness of the City's Plan and Its Limitations

I am aware that the City has identified Highland Drive as part of its long-range planning
considerations. I want to be direct: to date, no meaningful improvements to Highland Drive have
been committed, funded, or scheduled. There is no timeline. There is no guarantee.

Approving additional high-density development now — in advance of infrastructure
improvements that may or may not materialize — places the burden of inadequate planning
squarely on the people who already live here. Existing residents should not be asked to absorb the
safety and quality-of-life consequences of development that outpaces the infrastructure intended
to support it.

If the City's plan for Highland Drive is meaningful and imminent, I would ask the Commission to
present that plan — with timelines and funding commitments — at this hearing. If it cannot be
presented in concrete terms, it should not be offered as justification for approval.

3. Traffic Safety — An Already Unsafe Situation

Traffic conditions on Highland Drive are currently unsafe. Vehicles travel at high speed. Visibility
at our neighborhood's access point is limited. Residents experience near-miss situations on a
regular basis when attempting to enter or exit traffic. This is not a theoretical concern — it is a
daily reality.

The addition of 24 units, on top of the nearly completed 83-unit development nearby, will
materially increase traffic volume and alter traffic patterns in ways that will make the existing
access point more dangerous, not less. There is no feasible way to significantly widen or
reconfigure this roadway without disrupting traffic flow further.

Without a professional traffic study and a credible mitigation plan, approving this proposal is
approving a known safety hazard.

4. Cumulative Impact Cannot Be Ignored

This proposal cannot be evaluated in isolation. The 83-unit development nearby is nearly
complete. Adding another 24 units compounds the pressure on a road network that already lacks
capacity for current and anticipated use.

The cumulative impact of these two developments alone includes increased roadway demand,
degraded traffic flow, extended emergency response times, and concentrated parking pressure —
none of which have been studied or mitigated in any meaningful way.

Approving projects one at a time without assessing their combined effect is how communities
end up with infrastructure crises that are expensive and difficult to reverse.

5. Transparency and Consistency of Representation

The developer previously communicated to our HOA that the project would consist of
approximately 12 units. The current proposal reflects 24 units — double what was represented to
residents.

This Commission should weigh that discrepancy carefully. When a developer misrepresents the
scope of a project to the community it will directly impact, it raises legitimate questions about the
reliability of other representations made in support of the application.

6. Neighborhood Compatibility, Privacy, and Property Values

The existing R 2-10 zoning reflects the intended density and character of this area. A three-story,
24-unit structure adjacent to lower-density single-family homes is not compatible with that
character. The mismatch in building height, mass, density, parking demand, noise, and activity
levels is significant and will be permanent.
Residents of this neighborhood made purchasing decisions based on existing zoning, density, and
infrastructure. A substantial upzoning — without corresponding improvements — affects the
desirability and value of surrounding properties and the quality of life of the people who live here.

Additionally, a multi-story development at this proximity will introduce significant light spill into
adjacent homes from parking areas, exterior lighting, and elevated residential units — reducing
nighttime privacy and altering the character of the neighborhood in ways that cannot be undone.
It is worth acknowledging that the existing structures on this parcel are not without their own
issues — including what residents have observed as regular open burning in the rear of the
property, the smoke and byproducts of which regularly drift into our neighborhood. Residents
who would welcome the removal of those structures should understand, however, that a three-
story building brings its own intrusions. Exchanging illegal backyard burning for elevated units
with direct sightlines into neighboring homes, the pool .permanent exterior lighting, and increased
noise is not an improvement — it is a different set of problems at a larger and more permanent
scale.

My Requests to the Commission

I respectfully ask the Commission to:

   1. Defer any vote until independent traffic, infrastructure, and compatibility studies have
      been completed and made publicly available — studies commissioned independently, not
      solely by the developer. If one exists then share it with us - the impacted homeowners.
   2. Present the City's plan for Highland Drive in concrete terms — with timelines and
      committed funding — or acknowledge that no such plan exists in actionable form.
   3. Evaluate this proposal in the context of cumulative development, not as a standalone
      application.
   4. Address the discrepancy between the 12-unit representation made to the HOA and the
      24-unit proposal now before the Commission.
   5. Engage substantively with the concerns raised by residents at the prior hearing and in
      this letter before rendering a decision.

The residents of this neighborhood are not opposed to thoughtful development. We are opposed
to density that outpaces infrastructure, that was misrepresented to the community, and that is
being advanced without the independent analysis needed to make an informed and responsible
decision.

Thank you for your time and your commitment to the community you serve.

Respectfully submitted,


Sincerely,

Dina Roberson
6008 S. Ruby Ridge Cove
Holladay, UT 84121
City of Holladay
Proposed Budget Amendment
                                                       FY26 Original                             FY26 Proposed
General Ledger Account Description                       Budget         Proposed Change         Amended Budget                          Description
General Fund
Revenues
General Sales & Use Tax                                   (6,900,000)           (220,000)              (7,120,000) Increase based on projected sales tax estimate
Appropriated Fund Balance                                   (226,252)         (1,184,502)              (1,410,754) Increase based on projected sales tax estimate
          TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
                     ADJUSTMENTS - GENERAL FUND $         (7,126,252) $       (1,404,502) $            (8,530,754)

Expenditures
Relocation costs                                                 -               45,100                    45,100 Moving expenses to temporary City Hall
Rent of Temporary City Hall                                      -               54,746                    54,746 Operating expense City Hall lease
City Hall Construction Site Utilities                            -               20,000                    20,000 Rocky Mountain Power, Enbridge
Portable Trailer 4580S 2300E                                     -                1,609                     1,609 Portable Trailer for events and onsite city staff
Translator Fees                                               17,000              6,000                    23,000 Increase frequency of translator required cases
Unified Fire/Paramedic Contr.                              3,198,058              2,047                 3,200,105 Adjustment compared to UFA adopted budget
Salaries & Wages - Full Time                                 584,043            (15,000)                  569,043 Third party inspection services
Building Inspection Contract                                  90,000             15,000                   105,000 Third party inspection services
Engineering Contract-Forsgren                                 70,000              6,500                    76,500 Right of way permitting and inspection
Credit Card Processing Fees                                   30,000              9,500                    39,500 Credit card processing fees
Transfer to CP                                                   -            1,200,000                 1,200,000 Highland Drive enhancements
Transfer to CP                                             1,335,155             59,000                 1,394,155 Vehicle replacement/ Unrestricted CP
      TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENDITURE BUDGET
                     ADJUSTMENTS - GENERAL FUND $          5,324,256 $        1,404,502 $               6,728,758

Arts Fund
Revenues
Art Sales                                                    (14,000)           (11,339)                  (25,339) Recognition of actuals in excess of budget
Miscellaneous Revenues                                        (3,000)            (8,000)                  (11,000) Recognition of actuals in excess of budget
          TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
                       ADJUSTMENTS - ARTS FUND $             (17,000) $          (19,339) $               (36,339)

Expenses
Employee Benefits                                             39,301            (10,000)                   29,301 Reallocating budget based on actuals
Adm - Musical Licensing                                       11,100              6,700                    17,800 Reallocating budget based on actuals
Concessions / Refreshments                                     1,400              1,600                     3,000 Reallocating budget based on actuals
Individual Artist Payments                                    25,800              7,198                    32,998 Reallocating budget based on actuals
Advertising / Public Relations                                12,150             (4,000)                    8,150 Reallocating budget based on actuals
Musician Payments                                              4,500              5,900                    10,400 Reallocating budget based on actuals
Facility Rental                                               16,500              4,200                    20,700 Reallocating budget based on actuals
Special Projects                                               6,000              6,500                    12,500 Public art utility box wrap
Increase in Fund Balance                                       4,000              1,241                     5,241 Increase in contribution to fund balance
            TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENSE BUDGET
                            ADJUSTMENTS -ARTS FUND $         120,751 $           19,339 $                140,090

Grants Fund
Revenues
Appropriated Fund Balance                                   (336,469)             (2,848)                (339,317) Increase use of fund balance
          TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
                     ADJUSTMENTS - GRANTS FUND $            (336,469) $           (2,848) $              (339,317)

Expenditures
CP Trellis Columns/ Skatepark                                 75,000              2,848                    77,848 Correction for overage
      TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENDITURE BUDGET
                      ADJUSTMENTS - GRANTS FUND $             75,000 $            2,848     $              77,848
Capital Projects Fund
Revenues
                                                                                                    Transfer from GF for Unrestricted CP / Vehicle
Transfer from General Fund                          (1,335,155)       (1,259,000)       (2,594,155) Replacement / Highland Drive Enhancements
Interest Earnings                                     (400,000)         (209,914)         (609,914) Interest revenue actuals greater than budget
Approp Fund Balance                                 (7,513,217)        1,288,473        (6,224,744) Reduction in use of fund balance
            TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
            ADJUSTMENTS - CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND $   (9,248,372) $      (180,441) $      (9,428,813)

Expenditures
Leasehold Improvements City Hall                           -            180,441           180,441 Leasehold Improvements City Hall

     TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENDITURE BUDGET
         ADJUSTMENTS - CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND $             -      $     180,441     $     180,441

Stormwater Fund
Expenditures
MS4 Monitoring & Compliance                             5,000             (5,000)             -   Reallocating to curb and gutter repair
Curb & Gutter Repair                                  100,000              5,000          105,000 Reallocating from MS4 Monitoring
Contingency on projects                               360,000            (48,223)         311,777 Reducing contingency project
Corrugated Metal Pipe Replac                          907,319             48,223          955,542 Increasing Corrugated Pipe Replacement

     TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENDITURE BUDGET
             ADJUSTMENTS - STORMWATER FUND $        1,372,319 $              -      $   1,372,319
                                   Changes Since May 7th

                                               City of Holladay
                          Changes from Tentative Budget to Budget Adoption FY2027

                                                                Proposed
                 Account Description                         Tentative Budget          Proposed          Change
General Fund
*General Property Taxes                                              (8,567,446)          (8,567,446)            (0)
General Sales & Use Tax                                              (7,150,000)          (7,217,937)       (67,937)
Total Revenue Change                                                (15,717,446)         (15,785,383)       (67,937)

Rent of Temporary City Hall                                              150,726             212,060         61,334
Unified Police Services                                                8,401,399           8,393,914         (7,485)
Park restroom janitorial                                                   4,200               5,600          1,400
Liab.,Surety Bds,Works Comp (Admin)                                       37,659              41,587          3,928
Liab.,Surety Bds,Works Comp (Parks / Facilities)                           7,761               5,415         (2,346)
Liab.,Surety Bds,Works Comp (CED)                                         16,350              17,643          1,293
Liab.,Surety Bds,Works Comp (Public Services)                             11,553              13,232          1,679
Liab.,Surety Bds,Works Comp (Justice Court)                                6,843               4,878         (1,965)
Liablility Insur & Surety Bond (City Council)                             22,656              28,703          6,047
Computer Software (Admin)                                                 97,167              97,554            387
Computer Software (CED)                                                  152,624             152,790            166
Computer Software (Justice Court)                                          9,215               9,380            166
Computer Software (City Attorney)                                         12,273              12,439              166
Computer Software (Public Services)                                       45,019              45,185            166
Transfer to Arts Fund for Programs                                        18,415              21,415          3,000
Total Expenditure Change                                               8,993,858           9,061,795         67,937

Arts Fund
Transfer from GF for Programs                                            (18,415)            (21,415)        (3,000)
Total Revenue Change                                                     (18,415)            (21,415)        (3,000)

Admin - Professional Develop                                                 750               3,750          3,000
Total Expenditure Change                                                     750               3,750          3,000

*General Property Taxes: Changes from the Tentative Budget are pending final certification and will be
incorporated prior to budget adoption.
                                              CITY OF HOLLADAY COMPENSATION PAY PLAN
                                                          FISCAL YEAR 2027



                                                            ELECTED OFFICIALS SALARIES
                                                        POSITION                     SALARY
                                                         MAYOR                      $38,959.46
                                                        COUNCIL                     $22,951.60

                                                                     EMPLOYEE PAY PLAN
                             Hourly Pay Rates                   Per Pay Period                            Annual Pay Rates

                                Pay Range                            Pay Range                                  Pay Range
     Positions         GR Min       Mid       Max        Min         Mid          Max         GR Min            Mid           Max           Rng
City Manager           75   80.64    100.80    120.96     6,451.37     8,064.21    9,677.05   75   167,735.56    209,669.45    251,603.34   0.50
Assistant City
Manager                71   68.93     84.24     99.55     5,514.66     6,739.47    7,964.29   71   143,381.06    175,226.33    207,071.60   0.44
Finance Director       69   63.73     79.67     95.60     5,098.61     6,373.26    7,647.91   69   132,563.86    165,704.82    198,845.79   0.50

Community &
Economic
Development Director   68   61.28     76.60     91.92     4,902.51     6,128.14    7,353.76   68   127,465.24    159,331.56    191,197.87   0.50
Public Services
Director               67   58.92     73.66     88.39     4,713.95     5,892.44    7,070.93   67   122,562.73    153,203.42    183,844.11   0.50
Judge                  67   58.92     73.66     88.39     4,713.95     5,892.44    7,070.93   67   122,562.73    153,203.42    183,844.11   0.50
City Prosecutor        62   48.43     60.54     72.65     3,874.52     4,843.16    5,811.79   62   100,737.64    125,922.05    151,106.45   0.50
Building Official      60   44.78     55.97     67.17     3,582.22     4,477.77    5,373.32   60    93,137.63    116,422.03    139,706.44   0.50
Assistant City
Engineer               61   46.57     58.21     69.85     3,725.50     4,656.88    5,588.26   61    96,863.12    121,078.89    145,294.67   0.50
Court Administrator    59   43.93     53.82     63.70     3,514.73     4,305.55    5,096.36   59    91,383.07    111,944.25    132,505.44   0.45
Economic
Develop/Housing
Manager                58   42.24     51.75     61.25     3,379.55     4,139.95    4,900.35   58    87,868.34    107,638.71    127,409.08   0.45
City Recorder          57   40.62     49.76     58.90     3,249.57     3,980.72    4,711.87   57    84,488.77    103,498.76    122,508.75   0.45
Communications &
Engagement Manager      52   32.97   40.39   47.80   2,637.42   3,230.84   3,824.26   52   68,572.89   84,001.79    99,430.68   0.45

Emergency Manager       29   36.30   44.47   52.63   2,903.92   3,557.30   4,210.68   29   75,501.85   92,489.75   109,477.66   0.45
Senior Planner          29   36.30   44.47   52.63   2,903.92   3,557.30   4,210.68   29   75,501.85   92,489.75   109,477.66   0.45
Arts & Culture
Manager                 27   34.39   42.12   49.86   2,750.81   3,369.74   3,988.68   27   71,521.09   87,613.33   103,705.58   0.45
Engineering
Technician              24   30.29   37.11   43.92   2,423.23   2,968.46   3,513.69   24   63,004.07   77,179.98    91,355.90   0.45
Parks Supervisor        23   29.05   35.59   42.12   2,324.12   2,847.05   3,369.97   23   60,427.13   74,023.23    87,619.33   0.45
Public Health
Coordinator             22   27.90   34.17   40.45   2,231.73   2,733.86   3,236.00   22   58,024.88   71,080.49    84,136.09   0.45
Accountant              21   26.77   32.80   38.82   2,141.84   2,623.76   3,105.69   21   55,687.83   68,217.84    80,747.85   0.45
Planner I               20   25.68   31.46   37.24   2,054.50   2,516.76   2,979.02   20   53,416.96   65,435.78    77,454.59   0.45
Judicial Assistant II   19   25.51   30.61   35.71   2,040.71   2,448.85   2,856.99   19   53,058.44   63,670.14    74,281.84   0.40
Business License
Official                19   25.51   30.61   35.71   2,040.71   2,448.85   2,856.99   19   53,058.44   63,670.14    74,281.84   0.40

Prosecution Assistant   17   23.43   28.15   32.88   1,874.42   2,252.27   2,630.11   17   48,734.97   58,558.98    68,382.98   0.40

Planning Coordinator
and Technician          17   23.43   28.15   32.88   1,874.42   2,252.27   2,630.11   17   48,734.97   58,558.98    68,382.98   0.40
Admin Asst              17   23.43   28.15   32.88   1,874.42   2,252.27   2,630.11   17   48,734.97   58,558.98    68,382.98   0.40

Parks Maintenance II    16   22.53   27.04   31.54   1,802.34   2,162.81   2,523.28   16   46,860.87   56,233.05    65,605.22   0.40
Judicial Assistant I    15   21.62   25.94   30.27   1,729.46   2,075.35   2,421.24   15   44,965.92   53,959.10    62,952.29   0.40
Parks Maintenance I     14   20.72   24.86   29.01   1,657.43   1,988.92   2,320.41   14   43,093.27   51,711.93    60,330.58   0.40
                                       Holladay Consolidated Fee Schedule Draft
DESCRIPTION                                                                              ORD.                                 CURRENT FEE                        PROPOSED FEE-2026
                                                 BUILDING PERMIT FEES - ACCORDING TO THE 1997 UBC
Permit Types
Building Permit                                                                                 15.08.020         *Based on 1997 UAC Valuation Table
Demolition Permit                                                                               15.08.020                          $75.00
Mechanical, Electrical, Plumbing Permits (Circuit, Electrical Service Charge, Power to Panel,
                                                                                                15.08.020                          $75.00
Temporary Panel, Furnace/AC, Ductwork, Water Heater, Re-Pipe, etc.)
Additional Appliances per Fixtures, etc.                                                        15.08.020                           $0.00
Commercial Grading Permit                                                                       15.08.020                         $150.00
Residenital Grading Permit                                                                      15.08.020                          $75.00
Retaining Wall Permit                                                                           15.08.020                          $75.00
Waterway Permit                                                                                 15.08.020                          $75.00
Manufactured Home Permit                                                                        15.08.020        *Based on current ICC Valuation Table
Solar Permits
Base Solar Permit (Charged with KWA Fee)                                                        15.08.020                         $225.00
Plan Review Fee (Solar)                                                                         15.08.020                         $146.00
Re-Roof Permits
Re-roof (Residential)                                                                           15.08.020                          $75.00
Re-roof (Commercial)                                                                            15.08.020                         $150.00
Window and Door (Replacement only with no other work) Permits
Window and Door (Residential)                                                                   15.08.020                          $75.00
Window and Door (Commercial)                                                                    15.08.020                         $150.00
Plan Review/Inspection Fees
Plan Review Fee                                                                                 15.08.020              65% of Building Permit Fee
Sign Review                                                                                     15.08.020                            200
Zoning Review: Trees, Fencing, Livestock, Accessory Bldg. <200sqft                              15.08.020                           75.00
Special Inspection Fees
Re-inspection                                                                                   15.08.020                          $75.00
Overtime/After Hour/Same Day Requests                                                           15.08.020                         $105.00
Administrative Fees
Canceled Building Permit Fee - refund amount                                                    15.08.020              40% of Building Permit Fee
Building without Permit Penalty                                                                 15.08.020             100% of Building Permit Fee
Permit Re-instatement Fee                                                                       15.08.020                          150.00
State Surcharge
Applicable State Surcharge on all permits                                                     UCA 15a-1-209                 1% of Building Fee
                       *BUILDING PERMIT AND PLAN/INSPECTION FEES VALUATION TABLE *1997 UBC Table 3-A Building Fee Data
Value of Project
$1.00 to $500                                                                                                                      $24.00
                                                                                                             $24.00 for the first $500.00 plus $3.05 for each
$501.00 to $2,000.00                                                                                         additional $100.00, or fraction thereof, to and
                                                                                                                           including $2 000 00
                                                                                                              $69.25 for the first $2,000.00 plus $14.00 for
$2,001.00 to $25,000.00                                                                                     each additional $1,000.00, or fraction thereof, to
                                                                                                                        and including $25,000.00
                                                                                                            $391.25 for the first $25,000.00 plus $10.10 for
$25,001.00 to $50,000.00                                                                                    each additional $1,000.00, or fraction thereof, to
                                                                                                                        and including $50,000.00
DESCRIPTION                                                                              ORD.                      CURRENT FEE                         PROPOSED FEE-2026
                                                                                       1997 UBC     $643.75 for the first $50,000.00 plus $7.00 for
$50,001.00 to $100,000.00                                                              Table1-A   each additional $1,000.00, or fraction thereof, to
                                                                                                             and including $100,000.00
                                                                                                   $993.75 for the first $100,000.00 plus $5.60 for
$100,001.00 to $500,000.00                                                                        each additional $1,000.00, or fraction thereof, to
                                                                                                             and including $500,000.00
                                                                                                  $3,233.75 for the first $500,000.00 plus $4.75 for
$500,001.00 to $1,000,000.00                                                                      each additional $1,000.00, or fraction thereof, to
                                                                                                            and including $1,000,000.00
                                                                                                   $5,608.75 for the first $1,000,000.00 plus $3.15
Over $1,000,001
                                                                                                  for each additional $1,000.00, or fraction thereof
                                                                 BUSINESS LICENSE FEES
Annual Business Licensing Fees (new business license or annual renewals) *Current Schedule
Automotive                                                                                5.06                       $325.00
Banking/credit union                                                                      5.06                       $625.00
Bed and breakfast, Short Term Rental                                                      5.06                       $250.00
Business, professional and contracted services                                            5.06                       $225.00
Convenience store/gas                                                                     5.06                      $1,750.00
Daycare, Commercial                                                                       5.06                       $375.00
Department store                                                                          5.06                      $2,975.00
Educational services, public & Private                                                    5.06                       $300.00
Entertainment, recreational                                                               5.06                       $725.00
Fireworks Stand, sales                                                                    5.06                       $350.00
Grocery stores                                                                            5.06                      $1,050.00
Hotels                                                                                    5.06            $199.00 base $12.00 per room
Manufacturing                                                                             5.06                      $1,050.00
Movie theaters                                                                            5.06                      $2,925.00
Personal services                                                                         5.06                       $300.00
Nursing, residential and personal care                                                    5.06           $200.00 base $44.00 per resident
Restaurant/fast food/cafe without liquor                                                  5.06                       $700.00
Restaurant/cafe with liquor                                                               5.06                      $1,100.00
Retail/wholesale/distribution                                                             5.06                       $250.00
Salon/Personal Service booth rental:                                                      5.06                       $100.00
Seasonal sales/temporary                                                                  5.06                       $225.00
Mobile food truck or trailer (commissaries within city boundary)                          5.06                       $275.00
Mobile food court                                                                         5.06                       $225.00
Smoke/E-cigarettes shops                                                                  5.06                       2,050.00
Pharmacy/drugstore                                                                        5.06                       1,400.00
Social/Fraternal club (dual with Club)                                                    5.06                       1,550.00
Trade schools                                                                             5.06                       3,325.00
Home occupation –CUP application                                                          5.06                        $75.00
Home occupation daycare                                                                   5.06                       $200.00
                                                                                          5.06                 $111.00 base, plus
4+ unit apartment complexes
                                                                                          5.06                   $10.00 per unit
Home Occupation Non-Regulated                                                             5.06                        $25.00
Solicitor                                                                                 5.06                       $275.00
Establishment name change                                                                 5.06                        $25.00
New location transfer                                                                     5.06                        $35.00
Off premises beer retailer                                                                5.06                       $283.00
DESCRIPTION                                                                              ORD.                      CURRENT FEE                       PROPOSED FEE-2026
On premises beer retailer                                                                 5.06                        $383.00
On premises banquet and catering                                                          5.06                        $383.00
Club (under 50 percent food sales)                                                        5.06                        $523.00
Special event alcohol                                                                     5.06                        $100.00
Club (over 50 percent food sales)                                                         5.06                        $433.00
Restaurant; full service                                                                  5.06                        $433.00
Restaurant; limited service                                                               5.06                        $383.00
Brewery                                                                                   5.06                        $383.00
Special event permit                                                                      5.06                        $100.00
Cleanup bond; special event permit                                                        5.06                       $2,000.00
License renewal (estate sales and auction.)                                               5.06                         $25.00
Annual Business Licensing Fees (new business license or annual renewals) *new schedule pending adoption with a January 1st 2027 implementation
                                                              LRB STUDY - 2026
New Businesses                                                                         Base Fee               Disproportionate Fee                   Combined License Fee
3+ Apartment Complex                                                                   $111.00                       $10.00                         $111 Base + $10 per unit
Short Term Rental                                                                      $472.00                        $0.00                                 $472.00
Home Occupation Daycare                                                                $369.00                        $0.00                                 $369.00
Home Occupation NRU                                                                     $25.00                        $0.00                                  $25.00
Commercial                                                                               Base                 Disproportionate Fee                   Combined License Fee
Automotive                                                                             $298.00                         $0.00                                  $298
Banking/Credit Union                                                                   $298.00                       $644.00                                  $942
Billboards                                                                             $298.00                         $0.00                                  $298
Business, Professional and Contracted Services                                         $298.00                         $0.00                                  $298
Convenience Store/Gas                                                                  $298.00                      $3,062.00                                $3,360
Daycare                                                                                $298.00                         $0.00                                  $298
Educational Services                                                                   $298.00                       $238.00                                  $536
Entertainment                                                                          $298.00                       $606.00                                  $904
Grocery Stores                                                                         $298.00                      $3,943.00                                $4,241
Hotels                                                                                 $298.00                        $61.00                     $298.00 Base + $61.00 per room
Manufacturing                                                                          $298.00                         $0.00                                  $298
Nursing, Residential, and Personal Care                                                $330.00                       $187.00                     $330.00 Base + $187.00 per bed
Personal Services                                                                      $298.00                         $0.00                                  $298
Pharmacy/Drugstore                                                                     $298.00                      $2,921.00                                $3,219
Seasonal                                                                               $298.00                         $0.00                                  $298
Smoke Shops                                                                            $298.00                      $1,055.00                                $1,353
Solicitor                                                                              $508.00                         $0.00                                  $508
Beer License                                                                           $318.00                       $408.00                                  $726
Food Truck                                                                             $318.00                         $0.00                                  $318
Massage                                                                                $373.00                         $0.00                                  $373
Alcohol Related                                                                          Base                 Disproportionate Fee                   Combined License Fee
Restaurant with Liquor                                                                 $318.00                       $408.00                                  $726
Restaurant/Fast Food Without Liquor                                                    $318.00                       $183.00                                  $501
Retail/Wholesale/Distribution                                                          $298.00                         $0.00                                  $298
Renewal                                                                                  Base                 Disproportionate Fee                  Combined Renewal Fee
3+ Apartment Complex                                                                    111.00                         10.00                      $111.00 Base + $10.00 per unit
Short Term Rental                                                                        87.00                          0.00                                  87.00
Home Occupation Daycare                                                                  87.00                          0.00                                  87.00
Home Occupation NRU                                                                      25.00                          0.00                                  25.00
Home Occupation Regulated                                                                87.00                          0.00                                  87.00
DESCRIPTION                                                                    ORD.                    CURRENT FEE                            PROPOSED FEE-2026
Commercial                                                                     Base                 Disproportionate Fee                    Combined Renewal Fee
Automotive                                                                    $87.00                         $0.00                                    $87.00
Banking/Credit Union                                                          $87.00                       $644.00                                   $731.00
Billboards                                                                    $87.00                         $0.00                                    $87.00
Business, Professional and Contracted Services                                $87.00                         $0.00                                    $87.00
Convenience Store/Gas                                                         $87.00                      $3,062.00                                 $3,149.00
Daycare                                                                       $87.00                         $0.00                                    $87.00
Educational Services                                                          $87.00                       $238.00                                   $325.00
Entertainment                                                                 $87.00                       $606.00                                   $693.00
Grocery Stores                                                                $87.00                      $3,943.00                                 $4,030.00
Hotels                                                                        $87.00                        $61.00                        $87.00 Base + $61.00 per room
Manufacturing                                                                 $87.00                         $0.00                                    $87.00
Nursing, Residential, and Personal Care                                       $87.00                       $187.00                        $87.00 Base + $187.00 per bed
Personal Services                                                             $87.00                         $0.00                                    $87.00
Pharmacy/Drugstore                                                            $87.00                      $2,921.00                                 $3,008.00
Seasonal                                                                      $87.00                         $0.00                                    $87.00
Smoke Shops                                                                   $87.00                      $1,055.00                                 $1,142.00
Solicitor                                                                     $87.00                         $0.00                                    $87.00
Beer License                                                                  $87.00                       $408.00                                   $495.00
Food Truck                                                                    $87.00                         $0.00                                    $87.00
Massage                                                                       $87.00                         $0.00                                    $87.00
Alcohol Related                                                                Base                 Disproportionate Fee                     Combined License Fee
Restaurant with Liquor                                                        $87.00                       $408.00                                   $495.00
Restaurant/Fast Food Without Liquor                                           $87.00                       $183.00                                   $270.00
Retail/Wholesale/Distribution                                                 $87.00                         $0.00                                    $87.00
                                                         PUBLIC WORKS FEES
Administrative Fees - Public Works (PW)
Street vacation                                                               14.48                         $300.00
                                                                                         Paving cut by any permittee - $0.50 per square
                                                                                         foot ($250.00 minimum); nonpaving cut by any
Road cut permits                                                              14.16
                                                                                           permittee - $0.25 per square foot ($150.00
                                                                                                           minimum)
Curb, gutter and sidewalk permit                                              14.16                          $75.00
Road Closures
Full road closure - right of way 66 feet or greater                           14.16           $400.00 per day or portion thereof
                                                                                         $125.00 per day or portion thereof (no fee for
Partial road closure - right of way 66 feet or greater                        14.16        single lane closure of less than 4 hours in
                                                                                                           duration)
Full road closure - right of way less than 66 feet                            14.16           $100.00 per day or portion thereof
                                                                                          $40.00 per day or portion thereof (no fee for
Partial road closure - right of way less than 66 feet                         14.16        single lane closure of less than 4 hours in
                                                                                                           duration)
                                                                                             No less than $3,000.00 (allowance for
Excavation bond                                                              14.16.040
                                                                                                     surety/letter of credit)
Right of Way Fees
Right of Way Excavation or Closure without permit                            14.16.150        Five (5) times applicable fee amount
Failure to remove unlawful installations                                     14.16.150                    $ 40.00/day
Abatement of unlawful installations                                          14.16.150                     $10.00/day
Special event application                                                    5.91.120                       $100.00
Street identification change                                                  13.10a                        $250.00
                                                           LAND USE FEES
DESCRIPTION                                                                              ORD.              CURRENT FEE          PROPOSED FEE-2026
Permitted Uses (Administrative, Staff Decisions)
General Administrative Staff Reviews:
Home Occupation - regulated / as part of the CUP application process                  13.08.040                $75.00
Special Exceptions:                                                                   13.08.140               $600.00
Change of Use                                                                         13.08.130               $100.00
Property Line Adjustment                                                                13.10a                $650.00
Planning Commission Reviews
Subdivision                                                                             13.10a            2000 +100/lot
Subdivision Amendment                                                                   13.10a                 $500
Condominium plat                                                                        13.10a            1000 +100/lot
Condominium Conversion                                                                  13.10a                50/unit
Site Plan Permitted uses                                                              13.08.080                $600
Site Plan Review for Conditional Uses                                                 13.08.080                $600
Site Plan amendment                                                                   13.08.080                $300
Conditional Use Commercial                                                            13.08.040           1,000 + 35/acre
Conditional Use Residential                                                           13.08.040            900 + 50/unit
Conditional Use Amendment                                                             13.08.040                $250
Special Exceptions:                                                                   13.08.140                $600
Historic site Designation                                                             13.07.050                $600
Rezone, General Plan Amendment                                                        13.07.020        $900.00 + $85.00/acre
Ordaince Amendment                                                                     13.07.30                $600
Planning and Engineering Checking Fee for Subdivision Development:
Engineering Review Fee for Subdivision Development                                      13.10a         6% of Engineering bond
Planning Review Fee for Subdivision Development                                         13.10a          6% of Landscape bond
                                                                     APPEALS FEES
Appeal Hearing Officer Review
Appeals of an Adminstrative Decision                                                     13.09                $500.00
Variances - Residenital                                                                  13.09                $500.00
Variances - Commercial                                                                   13.09                $750.00
Appeal of a final decision on a Subdivision                                              13.09                $500.00
Double Fee (if construction has started)                                                 13.09
Appeal City Council Review
Appeals of Conditional Use Decisions                                                     13.09                150.00
Appeals of a zoning decision or interpretation                                           13.09                150.00
Double Fee (if construction has started)                                                 13.09
Appeal Planning Commission Review
Appeals of a zoning decision or interpretation                                           13.09                  500.
Double Fee (if construction has started)                                                 13.09
                                               STORMWATER QUALITY FEE, PENALTY, AND FINE SCHEDULES
Permit Fees
Working without a SWPPP permit                                                       Utah Code 19-5-         500/daily
                                                                                        108.3
Tracking mud on road                                                                Utah Code 19-5-          300/daily
                                                                                         108.3

Failure to clean up or report spills                                                Utah Code 19-5-          250/daily
                                                                                         108.3
conduct storm water inspections                                                     Utah Code 19-5-          100/daily
                                                                                         108.3
maintain storm water reords                                                         Utah Code 19-5-          100/daily
                                                                                         108.3
DESCRIPTION                                                                                       ORD.                       CURRENT FEE                 PROPOSED FEE-2026
failure to use general best management practices                                             Utah Code 19-5-                   500/daily
                                                                                                  108 3
Illicit Discharge Fine (By Vilation) Stormwater violation schedule for illicit discharges common to construction and maintenance activities. It is a
violation to discharge pollutants. The presence of BMP's does not excuse an illicit discharge. Illicit discharges are divided into the following
non-hazardous/ non-toxic                                                                    Utah Admin Code                $500-$2,000/daily
                                                                                               R317-1-8
hazardous/ toxic                                                                            Utah Admin Code               $2,000-$7,000/daily
                                                                                               R317-1-8
Documented public health effect/ significant environmental damage                           Utah Admin Code               up to $10,000/daily
                                                                                               R317-1-8
Stormwater Utility Fee, as per city’s Storm Water Fee Policy Manual.*current (will change come Jan 2027)
Class 1 - Residential customers in Area A                                                    1 ERU                               $6.50                         7.50

Class 2 - Residential customers in Area B                                                        2.5 ERU                         $16.25                        7.50

                                                                                            1 ERU / 5,200 SF of
                                                                                               Imperviousness
Class 2 - Non-Residential customers in both Areas A and B                                       (rounded up to                $6.50 / ERU
                                                                                              nearest 0.5 & not
                                                                                                 less than 1.0)

Impact Fees
Fire                                                                                            13.2.050              Sqft / 1,970 (ERU) x $242.01
Police - Single Family                                                                          13.2.050                        65.83/unit
Police - Multi Family                                                                           13.2.050                        43.31/unit
Police - Hotel Motel                                                                            13.2.050                       23.24/room
Police - Nursing Home                                                                           13.2.050                        15.32/bed
Police - Business/Institutional                                                                 13.2.050
 Commerical (%20 FAR)                                                                           13.2.050                   $128.58/1,000sqft
 Office (28% FAR)                                                                               13.2.050                    $40.94/1,000sqft
 Church (15% FAR)                                                                               13.2.050                     $8.32/1000sqft
Parks and Recreation - Single Family Residential                                                13.2.050                          2504.
Parks and Recreation - Multi-Family                                                             13.2.050                          2127.
Stormwater - Storm Water Runoff (CFs) shall be determiend by the city engineer                  13.2.050          $13,294.91 x Storm Water Runoff(CFS)
                                                                    MISCELLANEOUS FEES
Labor costs for GRAMA requests
Commensurate Services Rendered - Salary of the lowest paid employee who has the necessary                                 First 15 minutes frdd
skill and training to perform the request
Audio, video, photographs, or other media                                                                                      actual cost
Thumb drive/CD                                                                                                                     20
Copies (Including copies for GRAMA requests)
Copies - Black & White (up to 11x17)                                                                                         0.15/per page
Copies - Color (up to 11x17 in)                                                                                                  $5.00
Copies - Black & White (larger than 11x17in)                                                                                     $5.00
Copies - Color (larger than 11x17 in)                                                                                            $5.00
Plotter copies (Bond paper)                                                                                                    $2.00/sq.
Election Fees
Candidate Declaration Filing Fee (includes write-ins) - May be waived with Affidavit of                                          $50.00
Nomination Petition Filing Fee - May be waived with Affidavit of Impecuniosity                                                   $50.00
Miscellaneous Fees
Postage                                                                                                                        actual cost
thumb drive                                                                                                                    actual cost
                                                                        FACILITY FEES
Permits
DESCRIPTION                                                                                    ORD.                    CURRENT FEE                     PROPOSED FEE-2026
Special Event Permits                                                                          Title 2                     $100
Spring Lane Sports Fields (restricted by facility use agreement)                               Title 2                    80/day
CIty Park Ballfields (restricted by facility use agreement)                                    Title 2                    50/day
Storage Unit - city park (restricted by faciility use agreement)                               Title 2                  600/annually
Refundable sports season deposit                                                               Title 2                     $500
Knudsen Park (Pavillion & Outdoor classroom)                                                   Title 2                    75/day
                                                                   VIOLATION FINES PENALTIES
Civil Penalties for Violation of Zoning Regulations (Warning Period: 28 Days for All Violations)
Residential Zones R-1, R-2, FR
Conditional use without a permit & Other Violations                                             13.94          $25 / day after warning period
Nonpermitted use; Violation of permit or approval                                               13.94          $50 / day after warning period
Mixed Zones: R-M, R-M/U, HV, LU, P
Conditional use without a permit & Other Violations                                             13.94           $50 / day after warning period
Nonpermitted use; Violation of permit or approval                                               13.94          $100 / day after warning period
Commercial C-1, C-2, PO, NC
Conditional use without a permit & Other Violations                                             13.94          $100 / day after warning period
Nonpermitted use; Violation of permit or approval                                               13.94          $200 / day after warning period
Overlay Zones FCOZ, WUI
Violation of provisions                                                                         13.94          $100 / day after warning period
                                                                      CODE ENFORCEMENT
Occupancy violation                                                                               IBC     $50/person/day - Max Civil; 2,500/person
Illegal Dwelling Unit                                                                            13.14         $50/day - Mx. Civil: 2,500/day
Junked or inoperable vehicles                                                                     5.74    $60/vehicle/day - Max. Civil 3,000/vehicle
Snow removal                                                                                  14.32.100       60/day - Max. Civil 3,000/vehicle
Landscaping, weeds, refuse, rat control, trash, litter, junk, dumping                           Title 9       60/day - Max. Civil 3,000/vehicle
No building permit                                                                            15.08.020             See Building Permits
No Business License                                                                               5.06         $60/day - Max. Civil 3,000/day
Tree removal                                                                                  13.77.080                  $500/tree
Parking- oversized, commercial vehicles on private property                                    11.5.060   $60/vehicle/day - Max. Civil 3,000/vehicle
Nuisances, as defined                                                                            13.08          60/day - Max. Civil 3,000/day
Failure to Comply with AAO, PC order                                                            13.09           60/day - Max. Civil 6,000/day
       City of Taylorsville Precinct




Unified Police Department
 City of Holladay Precinct

    First Quarter Report
   January – March 2026


         This is not UCR/NIBRS compliant data.
City of Taylorsville Precinct




  This is not UCR/NIBRS compliant data.
                          City of Taylorsville Precinct
      Holladay City General Offenses First Quarter 2026
      Offense      2025    2026     Difference                      Offense       2025   2026   Difference
ARSON               1                   #SPILL!           KIDNAP                          1              1
ASSAULT            22       32              10            LARCENY                 44     42             -2
BURGLARY           10       16                6           LIQUOR                   2      3              1
BURGLARY ALARM     44       64              20            MORALS
CIVIL RIGHTS                                              OBSCENITY
CONSERVATION        2       1                -1           OBST JUDICIAL                   2              2
COUNTERFEITING                                            OBST POLICE                     3              3
CRIMES AGNST PER                                          PROACTIVE ENF
DAMAGED PROP       18       19                1           PROPERTY CRIME
DRUG COURT                                                PROSTITUTION
DRUGS              11       6                -5           PUBLIC ORDER            181    157           -24
EMBEZZLEMENT                                              PUBLIC PEACE            168    156           -12
ENTICEMENT                                                ROBBERY                  2                    -2
ESCAPE (WARRANT)    8       8                 0           ROBBERY ALARM            8      7             -1
EXPLOITATION                                              RUNAWAY                  6      1             -5
EXTORTION                                                 SEX ASSAULT              4      5              1
FAMILY OFFENSE     77       55              -22           SEX EXPLOIT
FORGERY                      1                1           SEX OFFENSE              8      7             -1
FRAUD              31       33                2           STOLEN PROP
GAMBLING                                                  STOLEN VEHICLE          12     11             -1
HEALTH/SAFETY       2       1                -4           TRAFFIC                 123    118            -5
HOMICIDE                                                  WEAPON OFFENSE           3      2             -1
INV OF PRIVACY     15       24                9           (blank (no ncic yet))
JUVENILE OFF        1                        -1                  TOTAL            803    775           -28




                            This is not UCR/NIBRS compliant data.
                City of Taylorsville Precinct
Holladay City Traffic Offenses First Quarter 2026
               Traffic Statistics                Jan        Feb   Mar
   TRAF-CANYON VEHICLE ASSIST                     1
   TRAF-COMMERCIAL VEH INSP
   TRAF-DRIVING UNDER .05 ALCOHOL                                 1
   TRAF-DRIVING UNDER DRUGS/CL A
   TRAF-DRUGS IN & ABOUT VEHICLE                  1         1
   TRAF-DRIVING UNDER DRUGS/CL B                                   1
   TRAF-DRIVING UNDER ALCOHOL/CLB                           1
   TRAF-ALCOHOL IN OR ABOUT A VEH
   TRAF-INJ ACC ALCOHOL INVOLVED
   DUI-2 OR MORE CONV IN 10 YRS
   TRAF-FLEEING                                   1         1
   TRAF-FREE TXT                                  1         1      1
   TRAF-HIT AND RUN                               7         3      4
   TRAF-IMPOUND/ABAND VEH                         5         1      3
   TRAF-MOVING TRAFFIC VIOLA                      3         2      1
   TRAF-NON MOVING TRAFFIC VIOLAT                                  3
   TRAF-ACCIDENT INVOL PEDESTRIAN
   TRAF-OFFICER INVOLVED ACCIDENT                 1
   TRAF-NON-REPORTABLE ACCIDENT                   6         8     7
   TRAF-REPORTABLE ACCIDENT                       18        15    20
    Total Traffic Cases                           44        33    41

  Holladay City Citations & Booking Arrests
                                          J  F   M
             Booking Arrests             16 13 14
             Citations                  189 150 135

                    This is not UCR/NIBRS compliant data.
                          City of Taylorsville Precinct


                      Holladay Patrol Response Times
12

     January   February   March
10


 8


 6


 4


 2


 0
         Priority 1                 Priority 2                      Priority 3

                            This is not UCR/NIBRS compliant data.
                               City of Taylorsville Precinct
               Holladay City Council District 1 - First Quarter 2026
                                                                                 MARCH 2026
       JANUARY 2026                      FEBRUARY 2026                   ASSAULT              6
ASSAULT             2             ASSAULT              3                 BURGLARY             1
BURGLARY            3             BURGLARY ALARM       5                 BURGLARY ALARM       10
BURGLARY ALARM      4             DAMAGED PROP         2                 ESCAPE               1
DAMAGED PROP        5             DRUGS                1                 FAMILY OFFENSE       4
ESCAPE              3             FAMILY OFFENSE       4                 FRAUD                1
FAMILY OFFENSE      4             FRAUD                2                 FRAUD ELDERLY        1
FORGERY             1             INV OF PRIVACY       2                 INV OF PRIVACY       1
FRAUD               4             KIDNAP               1                 LARCENY              3
FRAUD ELDERLY       1             LARCENY              2                 PUBLIC ORDER         16
INV OF PRIVACY      2             OBST JUDICIAL        2                 PUBLIC PEACE         25
LARCENY             3             PUBLIC ORDER         17                ROBBERY ALARM        1
PUBLIC ORDER        16            PUBLIC PEACE         12                SEXUAL ASLT          1
PUBLIC PEACE        7             ROBBERY ALARM        2                 SEXUAL OFFENSE       1
ROBBERY ALARM       1             STOLEN VEHICLE       2                 STOLEN VEHICLE       2
TRAFFIC             20            TRAFFIC              13                TRAFFIC              11
     TOTAL          76                  TOTAL          70                WEAPON OFFENSE       1
                                                                               TOTAL          86




                                 This is not UCR/NIBRS compliant data.
                               City of Taylorsville Precinct
               Holladay City Council District 2 - First Quarter 2026


                                                                                  MARCH 2026
                                                                          ASSAULT              1
      JANUARY 2026                  FEBRUARY 2026                         BURGLARY             1
BURGLARY           1          ASSAULT             1                       BURGLARY ALARM       6
BURGLARY ALARM     3          BURGLARY            1                       DAMAGED PROP         1
FAMILY OFFENSE     3          BURGLARY ALARM      3                       DRUGS                3
FRAUD              2          FAMILY OFFENSE      1                       FAMILY OFFENSE       4
LARCENY            2          FRAUD ELDERLY       1                       FRAUD                2
OBST POLICE        1          INV OF PRIVACY      2                       INV OF PRIVACY       1
PUBLIC ORDER       6          PUBLIC ORDER        6                       LARCENY              1
PUBLIC PEACE       13         PUBLIC PEACE        6                       LIQUOR               1
SEXUAL OFFENSE     1          SEXUAL ASLT         2                       PUBLIC ORDER         10
TRAFFIC            3          TRAFFIC             3                       PUBLIC PEACE         11
     TOTAL         35              TOTAL          26                      SEXUAL ASLT          1
                                                                          STOLEN VEHICLE       1
                                                                          TRAFFIC              10
                                                                               TOTAL           54




                                  This is not UCR/NIBRS compliant data.
                          City of Taylorsville Precinct
          Holladay City Council District 3 - First Quarter 2026

                                   FEBRUARY 2026                            MARCH 2026
                             ASSAULT             6                  ASSAULT            5
                             BURGLARY ALARM      4                  BURGLARY           1
       JANUARY 2026          DAMAGED PROP        1                  BURGLARY ALARM     3
ASSAULT             2        ESCAPE              2                  DAMAGED PROP       3
BURGLARY            3        FAMILY OFFENSE      7                  DRUGS              1
BURGLARY ALARM      2        FRAUD               3                  FAMILY OFFENSE     13
ESCAPE              2        FRAUD ELDERLY       1                  FRAUD              4
FAMILY OFFENSE      5        INV OF PRIVACY      1                  HEALTH/SAFETY      1
FRAUD               1        LARCENY             4                  INV OF PRIVACY     3
LARCENY             2        PUBLIC ORDER        12                 LARCENY            5
LIQUOR              1        PUBLIC PEACE        9                  LIQUOR             1
PUBLIC ORDER        20       ROBBERY ALARM       1                  OBST POLICE        1
PUBLIC PEACE        17       RUNAWAY             1                  PUBLIC ORDER       7
TRAFFIC             6        SEXUAL ASLT         1                  PUBLIC PEACE       18
WEAPON OFFENSE      1        SEXUAL OFFENSE      1                  SEXUAL OFFENSE     2
     TOTAL          62       STOLEN VEHICLE      2                  STOLEN VEHICLE     2
                             TRAFFIC             7                  TRAFFIC            8
                                  TOTAL          63                      TOTAL         78




                            This is not UCR/NIBRS compliant data.
                        City of Taylorsville Precinct
        Holladay City Council District 4 - First Quarter 2026



                                                                          MARCH 2026
      JANUARY 2026                                                ASSAULT            1
                                FEBRUARY 2026
ASSAULT            1                                              BURGLARY ALARM     1
                          DAMAGED PROP        1
DAMAGED PROP       2                                              CONSERVATION       1
                          FAMILY OFFENSE      1
FAMILY OFFENSE     1                                              FAMILY OFFENSE     1
                          FRAUD ELDERLY       1
INV OF PRIVACY     1                                              FRAUD              1
                          LARCENY             1
LARCENY            3                                              INV OF PRIVACY     1
                          PUBLIC ORDER        3
PUBLIC ORDER       6                                              LARCENY            1
                          PUBLIC PEACE        4
PUBLIC PEACE       3                                              PUBLIC ORDER       7
                          TRAFFIC             3
TRAFFIC            3                                              PUBLIC PEACE       4
                               TOTAL         14
     TOTAL         20                                             TRAFFIC            2
                                                                       TOTAL         20




                          This is not UCR/NIBRS compliant data.
                         City of Taylorsville Precinct
        Holladay City Council District 5 - First Quarter 2026

                                  FEBRUARY 2026
       JANUARY 2026         ASSAULT             2
                                                                           MARCH 2026
ASSAULT             2       BURGLARY            1
                                                                   BURGLARY           2
BURGLARY            2       BURGLARY ALARM      10
                                                                   BURGLARY ALARM     8
BURGLARY ALARM      5       DAMAGED PROP        1
                                                                   DAMAGED PROP       1
DAMAGED PROP        2       DRUGS               1
                                                                   FAMILY OFFENSE     1
FAMILY OFFENSE      4       FAMILY OFFENSE      2
                                                                   FRAUD              2
FRAUD               2       FRAUD               3
                                                                   INV OF PRIVACY     3
INV OF PRIVACY      6       FRAUD ELDERLY       1
                                                                   LARCENY            4
LARCENY             9       INV OF PRIVACY      1
                                                                   PUBLIC ORDER       10
PUBLIC ORDER        10      LARCENY             2
                                                                   PUBLIC PEACE       9
PUBLIC PEACE        9       OBST POLICE         1
                                                                   ROBBERY ALARM      1
ROBBERY ALARM       1       PUBLIC ORDER        11
                                                                   STOLEN VEHICLE     1
STOLEN VEHICLE      1       PUBLIC PEACE        9
                                                                   TRAFFIC            10
TRAFFIC             12      SEXUAL OFFENSE      2
                                                                        TOTAL         52
     TOTAL          65      TRAFFIC             7
                                 TOTAL          54




                           This is not UCR/NIBRS compliant data.
                                               City of Taylorsville Precinct
                                            Cases of Note
•   On March 9, 2026, we received calls of two different residential burglaries. During the course of an investigation, it
    was learned the listed suspects were involved in multi-state thefts. Today Det. Aposhian was alerted by the victim the
    suspects were in the area again. He and Det. Story utilized investigative techniques and found the suspects to be
    traveling south on I-15, various agencies were notified. Detectives located and stopped the vehicle in the Santaquin
    area. Det. Aposhian and Story transported the suspects back to the Holladay Precinct where they garnered full
    confessions, along with thousands of dollars in recovered property.
•   On March 19, 2026, officers responded to an address in Holladay on a hit & run auto pedestrian accident. The victim
    was walking and pulling a baby stroller with kids inside. The suspect truck hit the victim from behind and then drove
    off. The kids were not injured in this incident. UFA treated and released the victim at the scene. Officer Gavin worked
    hard to identify the suspect vehicle and did so the following day. He located the drive and pursued charges against him
    for the hit and run.
•   On March 2, 2026, officers responded to a traffic accident at the above address. Vehicle #1 was traveling southbound on
    Vanwinkle Expy through the intersection when it collided with vehicle #2 which then struck vehicle #3, who was
    stopped vehicle on 5600 S. The passenger in vehicle #1 was riding unrestrained in the cargo area of vehicle #1 and
    suffered severe injuries. He was transported to the hospital with serious injuries. Due to the seriousness of the injuries,
    the UPD Crash, Analysis and Reconstruction (CAR) Unit was called out to investigate. The investigation is still
    ongoing.




                                                  This is not UCR/NIBRS compliant data.
                                                                                HOLLADAY
                                                                                  36 Sworn

                                 City of Taylorsville Precinct
                                                                                  3 Civilian

                                                                               Precinct Chief



Intermountain Health – LDS Hospital                                              Lieutenant

                                                                             Office Coordinator

                                                                                   Patrol
                                                                                5 Sergeants


• March 8, 2026, LDS Hospital became a full
                                                                                 15 Officers

                                                                               Investigations
                                                                                  .25Sergeant

   partner to the UPD and part of the                                           2 PC Detectives
                                                                               3 SRO Detectives
                                                                               1 Victim Advocate


   Holladay Precinct.                                                       HOLLADAY ADD ONS

                                                                              Mental Health Unit

• Two full time officers assigned at the                                         1 Detective
                                                                               1 P/T L.C.S.W

                                                                                   Traffic
  hospital daily from 7:00 pm to 7:00 am.                                         2 Motors

                                                                                 DEU EAST

• Officers are responsible for police action on                                  .5 Detective

                                                                              Code Enforcement
                                                                                 1 Detective

  the entire campus.                                                               Bailiff
                                                                                 1 Detective


• Holladay will see cost savings as LDS                                           BRIGHTON
                                                                                   .20 Chief
                                                                                .20 Lieutenant
                                                                               .20 Office Coord
  Hospital pays for a portion of supervision,                                .20 Victim Advocate
                                                                                 .75 Sergeant
                                                                                   6 Officers
  office coordinator and victim advocate. In
  addition, they pay their share of shared                                     LDS Hospital
                                                                                   .05 Chief
                                                                                .20 Lieutenant

  services and have full access to all                                         .05 Office Coord
                                                                             .05 Victim Advocate
                                                                                  2 Officers

  resources.




                                    This is not UCR/NIBRS compliant data.
                                         City of Holladay
                                         CITY COUNCIL

          CITY OF HOLLADAY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE: June 4, 2025
SUBJECT: Affordable Housing Agreement – Block E Schematic
SUBMITTED BY: Gina Chamness, City Manager


SUMMARY: When the Cottonwood Mall Urban Renewal Project Area was created in 2008, the
Taxing Entity Committee for the project area, which included representatives of all the taxing
entities who assess property tax in this taxing district, passed a resolution that included several
conditions on the collection of tax increment in the project area. Among these conditions was a
commitment by Holladay that the City would agree to provide 100 units of affordable housing
at or below 80% of Area Median Income (AMI). Options for these 100 units included new
construction, purchase and rehabilitation, rehabilitation of existing housing, and/or the
development of rent to own units. Units must remain affordable for 20 years.


In exchange for 20% of the annual project area property tax increment reserved for affordable
housing by statute, the City and RDA’s existing Agreement to Develop Land (ADL) with KMW
assigns the responsibility for the development of 50 of the 100 units to the developer, with the
responsibility for the remaining 50 remaining with the City.


The 100 affordable housing units must be completed within 10 years after the Redevelopment
Agency after increment is first collected. The RDA began to collect increment on this parcel in
tax year 2020, with final payment received in March 2021. Given that, we believe the deadline
for completion of the units is March of 2031.


In January of 2026, the City, the RDA, and KMW entered into an affordable housing agreement
to commit 100 units of the anticipated Block E of the Holladay Hills/ Cottonwood Mall Project
                                         City of Holladay
                                         CITY COUNCIL
Area to fulfill the requirement of the TEC committee. 100 units would be deed restricted for 25
years, exceeding the expiration of the project area in tax year 2038. Because these units are yet
to be built, the agreement includes several deadlines to ensure that units are available by 2031.
The first of those deadlines, June 30, 2026 is approaching. Below is the language from the
agreement:




KMW has submitted the attached presentation for Council discussion.


RECOMMENDATION: Staff recommends City Council review the proposed information
with representatives of KMW. If the Council wishes to proceed, the Council and the RDA will
update the agreement as detailed above at their June 11, 2026 meeting.

ATTACHMENTS: KMW presentation.
BLOCK E AFFORDABLE HOUSING




                                        1
                             6/2/2026
          DEAL OVERVIEW




                                                                                                                                                          EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
BACKGROUND
•   Holladay Hills Developer has signed the Lifetime Fitness and Arhaus leases anticipating the development and commenced construction of the
    initial phase of the parking structure. The Developer intends to finance the TIF agreement with the PID To fund the parking structure in the fall
    of 2026 or spring of 2027.


•   In the Fall of 2025 The developer and the city entered into an affordable housing agreement requiring the following:
      –    100 units of housing to be deed restricted at 80% of the Area Median Family Income as reported by HUD (or its replacement) for Salt
           Lake County (Salt Lake City, UT HUD Metro FMR Area is the report name).
      –    The term of the agreement is for a period of 20 years from the earlier of the first date of certificate of occupancy in block E or 36 months
           after the commencement of construction.
      –    The City has Termination rights in the pre-construction phase where by June 30th 2026 we have to agree upon updated schematic
           drawings that detail the number of units to be developed in block E and to update exhibits A, B, and C to match the new plans.
      –    Review of development plans in December of 2026, if the Developer has materially deviated from the schematic drawings as per
           affordable units.
      –    Failure of the developer to commence construction of Block E project by May 1, 2028
      –    On December 31, 2033 the RDA has the right to exercise an early termination of the affordable housing agreement where the developer
           will return $5.5M to the RDA in 10 equal annual payments with 4.5% interest.
•   Any Pre-Construction termination would require the developer to repay the City the $2,000,000 and the $500,000 currently being held by the
    City
•   The developer will accrue and pay to the city interest on the $2.5M at the cities Public Treasurers Investment Fund Rate until the delivery of the
    affordable units.
•   On December 31, 2026 the RDA has the right to exercise an early termination of the affordable housing agreement where the developer will
    return $5.5M to the RDA in 10 equal annual payments with 4.5% interest.


•   In Return the RDA will remit $2.5M immediately to the developer, and will provide all of the affordable housing TIF collected in the project area
    to the Developer annually when it is received by the RDA.




                                                                                                                                                                 2
         POLICY QUESTIONS




                                                                                                                                           EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
BACKGROUND
•   Developer Proposing a change to the Unit mix that was approved in the original agreement. Block D (Grandeur) had an average unit
    size of 766 sf / unit. Moreover, Block D had an overall unit mix that heavily emphasized Studio apartments and Junior one-bedroom
    apartments.
•   The current design intent for Block E is to include significantly more 2-bedroom units, which would grow our average unit size to
    808sf/Unit. We believe that the existing market for efficient 2-bedroom units in a class A amenity rich environment is not being met
    and that the community and average turnover ration would improve.
                                                         Proposed
                                                          Block E              Block D
                                                      Units      Mix       Units      Mix       Change
                               Studio / Jr one Bed         26      13%          53      27%        -14%
                               One Bedroom                 91      45%         107      54%         -8%
                               2 Bedroom                   85      42%          40      20%         22%
                                                          202     100%         200     100%


•   This change would require us to change the affordable housing unit tables that are used for compliance as we are developing very
    different types of units in different quantities.


•   We need to know whether this will be a challenge? If so, we can modify the design and go back to the existing unit mix and unit
    types and keep the existing table.




                                                                                                                                                  3
2026 ASSET OVERVIEW




                                 4
                      6/2/2026
DEVELOPMENT SITE PLAN




                        ASSET OVERVIEW
                             5
PROJECT OVERVIEW




                                                                               ASSET OVERVIEW
                   Highly Confidential – Not for Distribution or Circulation        6
CLASS A AMENITIES




                    ASSET OVERVIEW
                         7
          BREAKDOWN OF UNIT PRICING (APRIL 2026 COMPARED TO AFFORDABLE 2026 RATES)




                                                                                                                                                              ASSET OVERVIEW
             PODIUM LEVEL                                   LEVELS 2 AND 3                                       LEVEL 4




                                        Units                                                Market Rent              Affordable Rent
                     Total       Affordable     Remaining       SF per Unit   SF Total    $Mo/Unit     $Mo       $Mo/Unit        $Mo         Diff    % Diff
Studio                       12          10                   2         486       5,832       1,346     13,459      1,457           14,573     111    7.64%
Studio +                      2           1                   1         486         972       1,446      1,446      1,590            1,590     144    9.06%
Junior 1 Bedroom              9           9                 -           554       4,986       1,520     13,684      1,678           15,103     158    9.39%
Junior 1 Bedroom +            3           1                   2         554       1,662       1,570      1,570      1,836            1,836     265   14.46%
1 Bedroom                    12          10                   2         653       7,836       1,757     17,572      1,987           19,869     230   11.56%
1 Bedroom +                   2           1                   1         605       1,210       1,844      1,844      2,097            2,097     253   12.05%
1 Bedroom Lrg                11          10                   1         788       8,668       1,994     19,940      2,270           22,704     276   12.18%
1 Bedroom Lrg +               4           2                   2         788       3,152       2,243      4,486      2,560            5,121     317   12.38%
1 Bedroom Corner             46          22                  24         694      31,924       2,044     44,964      2,346           51,613     302   12.88%
1 Bedroom Corner +           16           2                  14         694      11,104       2,144      4,287      2,497            4,995     354   14.17%
2 Bedroom 1 Bath             15          12                   3         996      14,940       2,595     31,146      3,001           36,015     406   13.52%
2 bedroom                    25          20                   5         862      21,550       2,443     48,852      3,001           60,025     559   18.61%
2 bedroom Lrg                22         -                    22         987      21,720       2,660        -        3,329              - Fitness Center
                                                                                                                                               669   20.09%
2 bedroom Lrg +              20         -                    20       1,190      23,805       3,280        -        3,758              -       478   12.72%
2 Bedroom Premium             3         -                     3       1,257       3,771       3,739        -        4,944              -     1,205   24.38%
Total                        202        100                 102         808    163,132        2,033   203,251       2,355          235,540

                                                                                                                                                                   8
                           REVENUE LOST DURING AFFORDABLE PERIOD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ASSET OVERVIEW
             Block D                                                                              Block E (Extra 25 Years)
      Vacancy Loss                                     5.00%                                Vacancy Loss                   5.00%
      Revenue Loss                                10,268,540                                Revenue Loss             12,726,693
      Discount Rate                                    4.75%                                Discount Rate                  4.75%
      NPV of Revenue Loss                          5,701,054                                NPV of Revenue Loss       6,586,417

      Affordable HH                                  500,000                                Affordable HH                                       500,000
      NPV HH TIF (20%)                             3,000,000                                NPV HH TIF (20%)                                  3,000,000
      Affordable City                              2,000,000                                Affordable City                                   2,000,000
      Resource                                     5,500,000                                Resource                                          5,500,000

                                                     201,054                                                                                  1,086,417


20 Year Affordable    Y0    Y1     Y2    Y3          Y4         Y5        Y6        Y7        Y8        Y9        Y10        Y11        Y12        Y13        Y14        Y15        Y16        Y17        Y18        Y19       Y20       Y21        Y21       Y21       TOTAL
Studio                -     -       -    1,276      10,388     21,701    34,129    47,766    54,978    56,078    57,199     58,343     59,510     60,700     61,914     63,152     64,415     65,704     67,018     68,358    69,725       -          -         -         922,355
Studio +              -     -       -        30        822      2,031     3,360     4,818     5,587     5,698      5,812      5,929      6,047     6,168       6,292      6,417      6,546      6,677      6,810     6,946      7,085      -          -         -          93,074
Junior 1 Bedroom      -     -       -      150       7,120     18,553    31,118    44,910    52,169    53,213    54,277     55,363     56,470     57,599     58,751     59,926     61,125     62,347     63,594     64,866    66,163       -          -         -         867,715
Junior 1 Bedroom +    -     -       -      -             17       874     2,291     3,848     4,655     4,748      4,843      4,940      5,039     5,140       5,242      5,347      5,454      5,563      5,675     5,788      5,904      -          -         -          75,369
1 Bedroom             -     -       -      -         3,876     18,015    34,034    51,626    60,828    62,044    63,285     64,551     65,842     67,159     68,502     69,872     71,269     72,695     74,149     75,632    77,144       -          -         -       1,000,523
1 Bedroom +           -     -       -      -           309      1,749     3,427     5,271     6,234     6,359      6,486      6,615      6,748     6,883       7,020      7,161      7,304      7,450      7,599     7,751      7,906      -          -         -         102,272
1 Bedroom Lrg         -     -       -      -         3,081     18,510    36,649    56,573    66,974    68,313    69,680     71,073     72,495     73,945     75,424     76,932     78,471     80,040     81,641     83,274    84,939       -          -         -       1,098,013
1 Bedroom Lrg +       -     -       -      -           609      4,018     8,096    12,576    14,913    15,211    15,516     15,826     16,143     16,465     16,795     17,131     17,473     17,823     18,179     18,543    18,914       -          -         -         244,230
1 Bedroom Corner      -     -       -      -         4,205     36,669    77,472   122,296   145,645   148,558   151,529    154,560    157,651    160,804    164,020    167,300    170,646    174,059    177,540    181,091   184,713       -          -         -       2,378,758
1 Bedroom Corner +    -     -       -      -             86     2,597     6,469    10,725    12,932    13,191    13,455     13,724     13,998     14,278     14,564     14,855     15,152     15,455     15,764     16,080    16,401       -          -         -         209,726
2 Bedroom 1 Bath      -     -       -      -         1,577     22,179    50,378    81,361    97,468    99,417   101,406    103,434    105,502    107,612    109,765    111,960    114,199    116,483    118,813    121,189   123,613       -          -         -       1,586,356
2 bedroom             -     -       -      -            -       1,799    34,921    82,636   107,000   109,140   111,323    113,549    115,820    118,136    120,499    122,909    125,367    127,875    130,432    133,041   135,702       -          -         -       1,690,149
2 bedroom Lrg         -     -       -      -            -         -         -         -         -         -          -          -          -         -           -          -          -          -          -         -          -        -          -         -             -
2 bedroom Lrg +       -     -       -      -            -         -         -         -         -         -          -          -          -         -           -          -          -          -          -         -          -        -          -         -             -
2 Bedroom Premium     -     -       -      -            -         -         -         -         -         -          -          -          -         -           -          -          -          -          -         -          -        -          -         -             -
TOTAL                 -     -       -    1,455      32,089    148,696   322,346   524,407   629,383   641,970   654,810    667,906    681,264    694,889    708,787    722,963    737,422    752,171    767,214    782,558   798,209       -          -         -      10,268,540

25 Year Affordable (from Y0
                         Occupancy)
                              Y1    Y2   Y3         Y4          Y5        Y6        Y7        Y8        Y9        Y10        Y11        Y12        Y13        Y14        Y15        Y16        Y17        Y18        Y19       Y20        Y21        Y22       Y23      TOTAL
Studio                   -    -      -     -             -     21,701    34,129    47,766    54,978    56,078    57,199     58,343     59,510     60,700     61,914     63,152     64,415     65,704     67,018     68,358    69,725     71,120     72,542    73,993    1,128,346
Studio +                 -    -      -     -             -      2,031     3,360     4,818     5,587     5,698     5,812       5,929      6,047      6,168      6,292      6,417     6,546       6,677      6,810     6,946      7,085      7,227     7,372     7,519      114,341
Junior 1 Bedroom         -    -      -     -             -     18,553    31,118    44,910    52,169    53,213    54,277     55,363     56,470     57,599     58,751     59,926     61,125     62,347     63,594     64,866    66,163     67,487     68,836    70,213    1,066,981
Junior 1 Bedroom +       -    -      -     -             -        874     2,291     3,848     4,655     4,748     4,843       4,940      5,039      5,140      5,242      5,347     5,454       5,563      5,675     5,788      5,904      6,022     6,142     6,265       93,781
1 Bedroom                -    -      -     -             -     18,015    34,034    51,626    60,828    62,044    63,285     64,551     65,842     67,159     68,502     69,872     71,269     72,695     74,149     75,632    77,144     78,687     80,261    81,866    1,237,461
1 Bedroom +              -    -      -     -             -      1,749     3,427     5,271     6,234     6,359     6,486       6,615      6,748      6,883      7,020      7,161     7,304       7,450      7,599     7,751      7,906      8,064     8,226     8,390      126,643
1 Bedroom Lrg            -    -      -     -             -     18,510    36,649    56,573    66,974    68,313    69,680     71,073     72,495     73,945     75,424     76,932     78,471     80,040     81,641     83,274    84,939     86,638     88,371    90,138    1,360,079
1 Bedroom Lrg +          -    -      -     -             -      4,018     8,096    12,576    14,913    15,211    15,516     15,826     16,143     16,465     16,795     17,131     17,473     17,823     18,179     18,543    18,914     19,292     19,678    20,071      302,662
1 Bedroom Corner         -    -      -     -             -     36,669    77,472   122,296   145,645   148,558   151,529    154,560    157,651    160,804    164,020    167,300    170,646    174,059    177,540    181,091   184,713    188,407    192,175   196,019    2,951,155
1 Bedroom Corner +       -    -      -     -             -      2,597     6,469    10,725    12,932    13,191    13,455     13,724     13,998     14,278     14,564     14,855     15,152     15,455     15,764     16,080    16,401     16,729     17,064    17,405      260,838
2 Bedroom 1 Bath         -    -      -     -             -     22,179    50,378    81,361    97,468    99,417   101,406    103,434    105,502    107,612    109,765    111,960    114,199    116,483    118,813    121,189   123,613    126,085    128,607   131,179    1,970,650
2 bedroom                -    -      -     -             -      1,799    34,921    82,636   107,000   109,140   111,323    113,549    115,820    118,136    120,499    122,909    125,367    127,875    130,432    133,041   135,702    138,416    141,184   144,008    2,113,757
2 bedroom Lrg            -    -      -     -             -        -         -         -         -         -         -           -          -          -          -          -         -           -          -         -          -          -         -         -            -
2 bedroom Lrg +          -    -      -     -             -        -         -         -         -         -         -           -          -          -          -          -         -           -          -         -          -          -         -         -            -
2 Bedroom Premium
TOTAL
                         -
                         -
                              -
                              -
                                     -
                                     -
                                           -
                                           -
                                                         -
                                                         -
                                                                  -
                                                              148,696
                                                                            -
                                                                        322,346
                                                                                      -
                                                                                  524,407
                                                                                                -
                                                                                            629,383
                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                      641,970
                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                654,810
                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                           667,906
                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                      681,264
                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                 694,889
                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                            708,787
                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                       722,963
                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                  737,422
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                             752,171
                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                        767,214
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   782,558
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             798,209
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Fitness Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        814,174
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   830,457
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             847,066
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12,726,693

Change                 -    -        -   (1,455)   (32,089)       -         -         -         -         -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -         -      814,174    830,457   847,066    2,458,153




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9
                AFFORDABLE COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                  ASSET OVERVIEW
    APPROVED PRICING PER UNIT TYPE                                                        UPDATED PRICING PER UNIT

    2025 AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATION                                      2026 AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATION
    Salt Lake County Median Family Income 126,100   UPDATED FOR 2026A AFI                 Salt Lake County Median Family Income 126,100
     80% of AMI                           100,880                                          80% of AMI                           100,880

                                                  [A]                                                                                     [A]
                                   Income      80% AMI                                                                     Income      80% AMI
     Weight                          Ratio    by Occupant                                 Occupants                          Ratio    by Occupant
       1                             70.04%       70,655                                      1                              70.04%       70,655
       2                             95.02%       95,859                                      2                              95.02%       95,859
       3                            115.01%      116,018                                      3                             115.01%      116,018
       4                            134.99%      136,178                                      4                             134.99%      136,178
       5                            163.04%      164,473                                      5                             163.04%      164,473
       6                            196.04%      197,760                                      6                             196.04%      197,760




                                                                       Maximum Maximum                                                                         Maximum Maximum      Old
      Unit                                                  80% AMI     Annual Monthly      Unit                                       Occupant     80% AMI     Annual Monthly    to New
      Type                                      Weight       by Unit     Rent   Rent        Type                                       Capacity      by Unit     Rent   Rent      Change
        1     Studio                             0.825        58,290     17,487   1,457       1       Studio                              0.825       58,290     17,487   1,457        -
        2     Studio +                           0.900        63,590     19,077   1,590       2       Studio +                            0.900       63,590     19,077   1,590        -
        3     Junior 1 Bedroom                   0.950        67,122     20,137   1,678       3       Junior 1 Bedroom                    0.950       67,122     20,137   1,678        -
        4     Junior 1 Bedroom +                 1.110        73,427     22,028   1,836       4       Junior 1 Bedroom +                  1.110       73,427     22,028   1,836        -
        5     1 Bedroom                          1.150        74,436     22,331   1,861       8       1 Bedroom                           1.350       79,476     23,843   1,987        126 NEW
        6     1 Bedroom +                        1.460        82,249     24,675   2,056       8       1 Bedroom +                         1.525       83,887     25,166   2,097          41 NEW
        7     1 Bedroom Lrg                      1.800        90,818     27,245   2,270       7       1 Bedroom Lrg                       1.800       90,818     27,245   2,270        -
        8     1 Bedroom Lrg +                    2.050        96,867     29,060   2,422       8       1 Bedroom Lrg +                     2.325      102,410     30,723   2,560        139 NEW
        9     1 Bedroom Lrg ++                   2.550       106,946     32,084   2,674       9       1 Bedroom Corner                    1.920       93,842     28,153   2,346       (328) NEW
       10     1 Bedroom Corner                   3.600       128,114     38,434   3,203      10       1 Bedroom Corner +                  2.200       99,891     29,967   2,497       (706) NEW
                                                                                             11       2 Bedroom 1 Bath                    3.200      120,050     36,015   3,001      3,001 NEW
       11     2 bedroom                           3.200     120,050      36,015   3,001      12       2 bedroom                           3.200      120,050     36,015   3,001        -
       12     2 bedroom Lrg                       3.800     132,146      39,644   3,304      13       2 bedroom Lrg                       3.850      133,154     39,946   3,329          25
       13     2 bedroom Lrg +                     4.500     150,325      45,098   3,758      14       2 bedroom Lrg +                     4.500      150,325     45,098   3,758        -
       14     2 Bedroom Premium                   6.000     197,760      59,328   4,944      15       2 Bedroom Premium                   6.000      197,760     59,328   4,944        -




•       Proposal includes adding more one bedroom and 2-bedroom units that would require a change in the unit pricing that was
        approved. Where we only had 8 normal 2-bedroom units in block D, the block E update would include 25. Further Block E would
        introduce another unit that is a large format 2-bedroom 1 bathroom unit that could also be effectively priced atFitness
                                                                                                                         the affordable
                                                                                                                                 Centerlevel.



                                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                  AFFORDABLE COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
20 Year Deed Restriction                                                                  EXAMPLE: 2026 AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATION




                                                                                                                                                                                       ASSET OVERVIEW
2025 AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATION                                          2026 AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATION
Salt Lake County Median Family Income     126,100                                         Salt Lake County Median Family Income     126,100
 80% of AMI                               100,880                                          80% of AMI                               100,880

                                           [A]                                                                                      [A]
                         Income         80% AMI                                                                     Income       80% AMI
 Weight                   Ratio        by Occupant                                        Occupants                  Ratio      by Occupant
   1                       70.04%           70,655                                            1                       70.04%         70,655
   2                       95.02%           95,859                                            2                       95.02%         95,859
   3                      115.01%          116,018                                            3                      115.01%        116,018
    4                     134.99%         136,178                                             4                      134.99%        136,178
    5                     163.04%         164,473                                             5                      163.04%        164,473
    6                     196.04%         197,760                                             6                      196.04%        197,760




                                                                 Maximum     Maximum                                                                      Maximum     Maximum
  Unit                                               80% AMI      Annual     Monthly        Unit                                 Occupant     80% AMI      Annual     Monthly
  Type                                   Weight       by Unit      Rent        Rent         Type                                 Capacity      by Unit      Rent        Rent
    1     Studio                            0.825      58,290       17,487       1,457        1       Studio                         0.825      58,290       17,487       1,457
    2     Studio +                          0.900      63,590       19,077       1,590        2       Studio +                       0.900      63,590       19,077       1,590
    3     Junior 1 Bedroom                  0.950      67,122       20,137       1,678        3       Junior 1 Bedroom               0.950      67,122       20,137       1,678
    4     Junior 1 Bedroom +                1.110      73,427       22,028       1,836        4       Junior 1 Bedroom +             1.110      73,427       22,028       1,836
    5     1 Bedroom                         1.350      79,476       23,843       1,987        5       1 Bedroom                      1.350      79,476       23,843       1,987
    6     1 Bedroom +                       1.525      83,887       25,166       2,097        6       1 Bedroom +                    1.525      83,887       25,166       2,097
    7     1 Bedroom Lrg                     1.800      90,818       27,245       2,270        7       1 Bedroom Lrg                  1.800      90,818       27,245       2,270
    8     1 Bedroom Lrg +                   2.325     102,410       30,723       2,560        8       1 Bedroom Lrg +                2.325     102,410       30,723       2,560
    9     1 Bedroom Corner                  1.920      93,842       28,153       2,346        9       1 Bedroom Corner               1.920      93,842       28,153       2,346
   10     1 Bedroom Corner +                2.200      99,891       29,967       2,497       10       1 Bedroom Corner +             2.200      99,891       29,967       2,497
   11     2 Bedroom 1 Bath                  3.200     120,050       36,015       3,001       11       2 Bedroom 1 Bath               3.200     120,050       36,015       3,001
   12     2 bedroom                         3.200     120,050       36,015       3,001       12       2 bedroom                      3.200     120,050       36,015       3,001
   13     2 bedroom Lrg                     3.850     133,154       39,946       3,329       13       2 bedroom Lrg                  3.850     133,154       39,946       3,329
   14     2 bedroom Lrg +                   4.500     150,325       45,098       3,758       14       2 bedroom Lrg +                4.500     150,325       45,098       3,758
   15     2 Bedroom Premium                 6.000     197,760       59,328       4,944       15       2 Bedroom Premium              6.000     197,760       59,328       4,944


Units included                                                                            Units included
  Unit                                                Units       Market    Affordable      Unit                                               Units       Market    Affordable
  Type                                               Avaiable      Units       Units        Type                                              Avaiable      Units       Units
    1      Studio                                           12            2          10       1      Studio                                          12           12         -
    2      Studio +                                          2            1           1       2      Studio +                                         2            2         -
    3      Junior 1 Bedroom                                  9         -              9       3      Junior 1 Bedroom                                 9            9         -
    4      Junior 1 Bedroom +                                3            2           1       4      Junior 1 Bedroom +                               3            3         -
    5      1 Bedroom                                        12            2          10       5      1 Bedroom                                       12           12         -
    6      1 Bedroom +                                       2            1           1       6      1 Bedroom +                                      2            2         -
    7      1 Bedroom Lrg                                    11            1          10       7      1 Bedroom Lrg                                   11           11         -
    8      1 Bedroom Lrg +                                   4            2           2       8      1 Bedroom Lrg +                                  4            4         -
    9      1 Bedroom Corner                                 46           24          22       9      1 Bedroom Corner                                46           46         -
    10     1 Bedroom Corner +                               16           14           2       10     1 Bedroom Corner +                              16           16         -
    11     2 Bedroom 1 Bath                                 15            3          12       11     2 Bedroom 1 Bath                                15           15         -
    12     2 bedroom                                        25            5          20       12     2 bedroom                                       25           25         -
    13
    14
           2 bedroom Lrg
           2 bedroom Lrg +
                                                            22
                                                            20
                                                                         22
                                                                         20
                                                                                    -
                                                                                    -
                                                                                              13
                                                                                              14
                                                                                                     2 bedroom Lrg
                                                                                                     2 bedroom Lrg +
                                                                                                                                                     22
                                                                                                                                                     20
                                                                                                                                                                  22
                                                                                                                                                                  20  Fitness Center
                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                             -
    15     2 Bedroom Premium                                 3            3         -         15     2 Bedroom Premium                                3            3         -
           TOTALS                                         202         102          100               TOTALS                                        202          202          -
           Ratio                                                     50.5%       49.5%               Ratio                                                   100.0%         0.0%




                                                                                                                                                                                          11
APPENDIX – DECEMBER 2025 PRESENTATION ASSET OVERVIEW




                                                                  12
                                                       6/2/2026
DEVELOPMENT SITE PLAN




                                              ASSET OVERVIEW
                        Highly Confidential      13
CLASS A AMENITIES




                                                                                ASSET OVERVIEW
                    Highly Confidential – Not for Distribution or Circulation      14
CLASS A AMENITIES




                                                                                ASSET OVERVIEW
                    Highly Confidential – Not for Distribution or Circulation      15
           BREAKDOWN OF UNIT PRICING (OCTOBER 2025 COMPARED TO AFFORDABLE)




                                                                                                                                                                          ASSET OVERVIEW
PODIUM LEVEL                                                LEVELS 4 AND 5                                                   LEVEL 6




               20 Year Affordable                 Units                                           Market Rent              Affordable Rent
                                    Total       Affordable Remaining SF per Unit   SF Total    $Mo/Unit     $Mo       $Mo/Unit        $Mo         Diff    % Diff
               Studio                       17            17     -          448        7,616       1,301     22,122      1,418           24,105    117     8.23%
               Studio +                      9             6        3       448        4,032       1,422      8,533      1,547            9,281    125     8.06%
               Junior 1 Bedroom             15            15     -          571        8,564       1,499     22,485      1,633           24,492    134     8.20%
               Junior 1 Bedroom +           12             7        5       573        6,872       1,602     11,215      1,786           12,503    184    10.31%
               1 Bedroom                    21            21     -          674       14,158       1,647     34,590      1,811           38,025    164     9.03%
               1 Bedroom +                  22             9       13       670       14,733       1,782     16,040      2,001           18,007    219    10.92%
               1 Bedroom Lrg                 7             7     -          821        5,745       1,903     13,324      2,209           15,465    306    13.84%
               1 Bedroom Lrg +              23             5       18       808       18,590       2,018     10,088      2,356           11,782    339    14.37%
               1 Bedroom Lrg ++             30             3       27       800       24,000       2,220      6,660      2,602            7,805    381    14.66%
               1 Bedroom Corner              4          -           4       995        3,980       2,648        -        3,116              -      469    15.05%
               2 bedroom                     8             8     -        1,033        8,266       2,644     21,149      2,920           23,363    277     9.48%
               2 bedroom Lrg                 7             2        5     1,034        7,235       2,904      5,809      3,215            6,429    310   Fitness Center
                                                                                                                                                           9.65%
               2 bedroom Lrg +              19          -          19     1,097       20,842       3,086        -        3,657              -      571    15.61%
               2 Bedroom Premium             6          -           6     1,423        8,535       4,048        -        4,811              -      763    15.86%
               Total                        200         100       100       766     153,168        1,720   172,016      1,913           191,257


                                                                              Highly Confidential                                                                            16
                         REVENUE LOST DURING AFFORDABLE PERIOD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ASSET OVERVIEW
            Block D                                                                          Block E (Extra 3 Years)
    Vacancy Loss                               5.00%                                  Vacancy Loss                   5.00%
    Revenue Loss                          10,217,627                                  Revenue Loss              12,603,519
    Discount Rate                              4.75%                                  Discount Rate                  4.75%
    NPV of Revenue Loss                    5,703,481                                  NPV of Revenue Loss        6,548,464

    Affordable HH                              500,000                                Affordable HH                              500,000
    NPV HH TIF (20%)                         3,000,000                                NPV HH TIF (20%)                         3,000,000
    Affordable City                          2,000,000                                Affordable City                          2,000,000
    Resource                                 5,500,000                                Resource                                 5,500,000

                                              203,481                                                                          1,048,464

20 Year Affordable   Y0   Y1   Y2    Y3        Y4         Y5        Y6        Y7         Y8        Y9        Y10       Y11       Y12       Y13       Y14       Y15       Y16       Y17       Y18       Y19       Y20       Y21      Y22       Y23        TOTAL
Studio               -    -    -      391     12,430     31,111    51,640    74,172     86,040    87,761    89,516    91,306    93,132    94,995    96,895    98,833   100,809   102,826   104,882   106,980   109,119       -        -         -       1,432,837
Studio +             -    -    -      203      5,007     12,217    20,140    28,836     33,419    34,087    34,769    35,464    36,174    36,897    37,635    38,388    39,155    39,939    40,737    41,552    42,383       -        -         -         557,002
Junior 1 Bedroom     -    -    -      426     12,747     31,736    52,605    75,509     87,575    89,326    91,113    92,935    94,794    96,690    98,623   100,596   102,608   104,660   106,753   108,888   111,066       -        -         -       1,458,647
Junior 1 Bedroom +   -    -    -      -        2,982     12,241    22,577    33,928     39,871    40,669    41,482    42,312    43,158    44,021    44,901    45,799    46,715    47,650    48,603    49,575    50,566       -        -         -         657,049
1 Bedroom            -    -    -        51    15,366     44,495    76,511   111,659    130,130   132,732   135,387   138,095   140,857   143,674   146,547   149,478   152,468   155,517   158,627   161,800   165,036       -        -         -       2,158,430
1 Bedroom +          -    -    -      -        3,116     15,972    30,726    46,929     55,398    56,506    57,636    58,789    59,964    61,164    62,387    63,635    64,907    66,205    67,530    68,880    70,258       -        -         -         910,000
1 Bedroom Lrg        -    -    -      -            66     6,942    19,070    32,401     39,304    40,090    40,892    41,709    42,544    43,395    44,262    45,148    46,051    46,972    47,911    48,869    49,847       -        -         -         635,472
1 Bedroom Lrg +      -    -    -      -          -        4,351    13,516    23,591     28,799    29,375    29,962    30,562    31,173    31,796    32,432    33,081    33,742    34,417    35,106    35,808    36,524       -        -         -         464,235
1 Bedroom Lrg ++     -    -    -      -          -        2,548     8,587    15,232     18,663    19,036    19,417    19,806    20,202    20,606    21,018    21,438    21,867    22,304    22,750    23,205    23,669       -        -         -         300,349
1 Bedroom Corner     -    -    -      -          -          -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -             -
2 bedroom            -    -    -      -        8,006     25,788    45,335    66,796     78,060    79,621    81,214    82,838    84,495    86,184    87,908    89,666    91,460    93,289    95,155    97,058    98,999       -        -         -       1,291,870
2 bedroom Lrg        -    -    -      -        2,050      6,926    12,291    18,182     21,272    21,698    22,132    22,575    23,026    23,487    23,956    24,435    24,924    25,423    25,931    26,450    26,979       -        -         -         351,735
2 bedroom Lrg +      -    -    -      -          -          -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -             -
2 Bedroom Premium    -    -    -      -          -          -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -             -
TOTAL                -    -    -    1,071     61,770    194,325   352,999   527,234    618,530   630,901   643,519   656,389   669,517   682,907   696,565   710,497   724,707   739,201   753,985   769,065   784,446       -        -         -      10,217,627


23 Year Affordable   Y0   Y1   Y2    Y3        Y4         Y5        Y6        Y7         Y8        Y9        Y10       Y11       Y12       Y13       Y14       Y15       Y16       Y17       Y18       Y19       Y20       Y21       Y22       Y23       TOTAL
Studio               -    -    -      -          -       31,111    51,640    74,172     86,040    87,761    89,516    91,306    93,132    94,995    96,895    98,833   100,809   102,826   104,882   106,980   109,119   111,302   113,528   115,798    1,760,643
Studio +             -    -    -      -          -       12,217    20,140    28,836     33,419    34,087    34,769    35,464    36,174    36,897    37,635    38,388    39,155    39,939    40,737    41,552    42,383    43,231    44,095    44,977      684,096
Junior 1 Bedroom     -    -    -      -          -       31,736    52,605    75,509     87,575    89,326    91,113    92,935    94,794    96,690    98,623   100,596   102,608   104,660   106,753   108,888   111,066   113,287   115,553   117,864    1,792,179
Junior 1 Bedroom +   -    -    -      -          -       12,241    22,577    33,928     39,871    40,669    41,482    42,312    43,158    44,021    44,901    45,799    46,715    47,650    48,603    49,575    50,566    51,578    52,609    53,661      811,915
1 Bedroom            -    -    -      -          -       44,495    76,511   111,659    130,130   132,732   135,387   138,095   140,857   143,674   146,547   149,478   152,468   155,517   158,627   161,800   165,036   168,337   171,704   175,138    2,658,191
1 Bedroom +          -    -    -      -          -       15,972    30,726    46,929     55,398    56,506    57,636    58,789    59,964    61,164    62,387    63,635    64,907    66,205    67,530    68,880    70,258    71,663    73,096    74,558    1,126,202
1 Bedroom Lrg        -    -    -      -          -        6,942    19,070    32,401     39,304    40,090    40,892    41,709    42,544    43,395    44,262    45,148    46,051    46,972    47,911    48,869    49,847    50,844    51,861    52,898      791,008
1 Bedroom Lrg +      -    -    -      -          -        4,351    13,516    23,591     28,799    29,375    29,962    30,562    31,173    31,796    32,432    33,081    33,742    34,417    35,106    35,808    36,524    37,254    37,999    38,759      578,248
1 Bedroom Lrg ++     -    -    -      -          -        2,548     8,587    15,232     18,663    19,036    19,417    19,806    20,202    20,606    21,018    21,438    21,867    22,304    22,750    23,205    23,669    24,143    24,626    25,118      374,236
1 Bedroom Corner     -    -    -      -          -          -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -            -
2 bedroom            -    -    -      -          -       25,788    45,335    66,796     78,060    79,621    81,214    82,838    84,495    86,184    87,908    89,666    91,460    93,289    95,155    97,058    98,999   100,979   102,998   105,058    1,592,900
2 bedroom Lrg        -    -    -      -          -        6,926    12,291    18,182     21,272    21,698    22,132    22,575    23,026    23,487    23,956    24,435    24,924    25,423    25,931    26,450    26,979    27,518    28,069    28,630      433,902
2 bedroom Lrg +      -    -    -      -          -          -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -            -
2 Bedroom Premium    -    -    -      -          -          -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -            -
TOTAL                -    -    -      -          -      194,325   352,999   527,234    618,530   630,901   643,519   656,389   669,517   682,907   696,565   710,497   724,707   739,201   753,985   769,065   784,446   800,135   816,137   832,460   12,603,519

Change               -    -    -    (1,071) (61,770)        -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Fitness       Center 2,385,892
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          800,135 816,137 832,460




                                                                                                                     Highly Confidential                                                                                                                               17
        REVENUE LOST DURING AFFORDABLE PERIOD




                                                                                                                                         ASSET OVERVIEW
                                              Market Rent vs Affordable Rent
 4,500,000
                                                                                                                   3.67% Average
                                                                                                                   Market Growth
 4,000,000


 3,500,000


 3,000,000
                                                                                                                    2.00% Average
 2,500,000                                                                                                         Income Growth

 2,000,000


 1,500,000


 1,000,000


  500,000


        -
             Y1   Y2    Y3    Y4   Y5    Y6     Y7      Y8     Y9      Y10   Y11   Y12   Y13   Y14   Y15   Y16   Y17   Y18   Y19   Y20

                                                     Affordable Rent          Market Rent

                Retail    Accelerated
             Construction   Growth

This works because of the assumption that Incomes will continue to grow slower than the cost of living over theFitness
                                                                                                                next 20 Center
                                                                                                                        years.



                                                             Highly Confidential                                                            18
                 REVENUE LOST DURING AFFORDABLE PERIOD
                                                          Block D




                                                                                                                                                                                ASSET OVERVIEW
                                                Market Rent vs Affordable Rent
4,500,000


4,000,000


3,500,000                                                                                                                                       Gaining The additional years
3,000,000                                                                                                                                       at the end of the deed
2,500,000                                                                                                                                       restriction period
2,000,000                                                                                                                                       significantly increases the
1,500,000                                                                                                                                       subsidy to the city.
1,000,000                                                                                                                                       An increase of $2.3M or
 500,000                                                                                                                                        1.5M (NPV today)
       -
            Y1    Y2   Y3   Y4   Y5   Y6   Y7     Y8   Y9   Y10   Y11   Y12   Y13   Y14   Y15   Y16   Y17   Y18   Y19   Y20   Y21   Y22   Y23

                                                Affordable Rent         Market Rent (Block D)

                                                           Block E
                                                Market Rent vs Affordable Rent
4,500,000


4,000,000


3,500,000


3,000,000


2,500,000


2,000,000


1,500,000


1,000,000


 500,000
                                                                                                                                                               Fitness Center
       -
            Y1    Y2   Y3   Y4   Y5   Y6   Y7     Y8   Y9   Y10   Y11   Y12   Y13   Y14   Y15   Y16   Y17   Y18   Y19   Y20   Y21   Y22   Y23

                                                Affordable Rent         Market Rent (Block E)


                                                                                                 Highly Confidential                                                               19
    AFFORDABLE COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE




                                                                                                                                                                                           ASSET OVERVIEW
2025 AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATION                                                 2026 AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATION
Salt Lake County Median Family Income     122,700                                                Salt Lake County Median Family Income         -
 80% of AMI                                98,160                                                 80% of AMI                                   -

                                           [A]                                                                                             [A]
                         Income         80% AMI                                                                           Income        80% AMI
 Weight                   Ratio        by Occupant                                               Occupants                 Ratio       by Occupant
   1                       70.04%           68,750                                                  1                       70.04%             -
   2                       95.02%           93,274                                                  2                       95.02%             -
   3                      115.01%          112,890                                                  3                      115.01%             -
   4                      134.99%          132,506                                                  4                      134.99%             -
   5                      163.04%          160,038                                                  5                      163.04%             -
   6                      196.04%          192,428                                                  6                      196.04%             -




                                                                 Maximum     Maximum                                                                             Maximum    Maximum
  Unit                                               80% AMI      Annual     Monthly               Unit                                 Occupant     80% AMI      Annual    Monthly
  Type                                   Weight       by Unit      Rent        Rent                Type                                 Capacity      by Unit      Rent       Rent
    1     Studio                            0.825      56,719       17,016       1,418               1    Studio                            0.825         -             -          -
    2     Studio +                          0.900      61,875       18,563       1,547               2    Studio +                          0.900         -             -          -
    3     Junior 1 Bedroom                  0.950      65,313       19,594       1,633               3    Junior 1 Bedroom                  0.950         -             -          -
    4     Junior 1 Bedroom +                1.110      71,448       21,434       1,786               4    Junior 1 Bedroom +                1.110         -             -          -
    5     1 Bedroom                         1.150      72,429       21,729       1,811               5    1 Bedroom                         1.150         -             -          -
    6     1 Bedroom +                       1.460      80,031       24,009       2,001               6    1 Bedroom +                       1.460         -             -          -
    7     1 Bedroom Lrg                     1.800      88,369       26,511       2,209               7    1 Bedroom Lrg                     1.800         -             -          -
    8     1 Bedroom Lrg +                   2.050      94,255       28,276       2,356               8    1 Bedroom Lrg +                   2.050         -             -          -
    9     1 Bedroom Lrg ++                  2.550     104,063       31,219       2,602               9    1 Bedroom Lrg ++                  2.550         -             -          -
   10     1 Bedroom Corner                  3.600     124,660       37,398       3,116              10    1 Bedroom Corner                  3.600         -             -          -
   11     2 bedroom                         3.200     116,813       35,044       2,920              11    2 bedroom                         3.200         -             -          -
   12     2 bedroom Lrg                     3.800     128,583       38,575       3,215              12    2 bedroom Lrg                     3.800         -             -          -
   13     2 bedroom Lrg +                   4.500     146,272       43,882       3,657              13    2 bedroom Lrg +                   4.500         -             -          -
   14     2 Bedroom Premium                 6.000     192,428       57,728       4,811              14    2 Bedroom Premium                 6.000         -             -          -


Units included                                                                                   Units included
  Unit                                                Units      Market     Affordable             Unit                                               Units      Market     Affordable
  Type                                               Avaiable     Units        Units               Type                                              Avaiable     Units        Units
    1      Studio                                           17         -              17             1      Studio                                          17         -              17
    2      Studio +                                          9            3            6             2      Studio +                                         9            3            6
    3      Junior 1 Bedroom                                 15         -              15             3      Junior 1 Bedroom                                15         -              15
    4      Junior 1 Bedroom +                               12            5            7             4      Junior 1 Bedroom +                              12            5            7
    5      1 Bedroom                                        21         -              21             5      1 Bedroom                                       21         -              21
    6      1 Bedroom +                                      22           13            9             6      1 Bedroom +                                     22           13            9
    7      1 Bedroom Lrg                                     7         -               7             7      1 Bedroom Lrg                                    7         -               7
    8      1 Bedroom Lrg +                                  23           18            5             8      1 Bedroom Lrg +                                 23           18            5
    9      1 Bedroom Lrg ++                                 30           27            3             9      1 Bedroom Lrg ++                                30           27            3
   10      1 Bedroom Corner                                  4            4         -               10      1 Bedroom Corner                                 4            4         -
   11      2 bedroom                                         8         -               8            11      2 bedroom                                        8         -               8

                                                                                                                                                                   Fitness Center
   12      2 bedroom Lrg                                     7            5            2            12      2 bedroom Lrg                                    7            5            2
   13      2 bedroom Lrg +                                  19           19         -               13      2 bedroom Lrg +                                 19           19         -
   14      2 Bedroom Premium                                 6            6         -               14      2 Bedroom Premium                                6            6         -
           TOTALS                                         200         100          100                      TOTALS                                        200         100          100
           Ratio                                                     50.0%       50.0%                      Ratio                                                    50.0%       50.0%



                                                                                    Highly Confidential                                                                                       20
Proposed updates to the Employee Manual:


  1. Revise vacation accrual hours to match with Bamboo:

            Full-time employee (effective July 1, 2019):

                Completed Years of Service                        Annual time off with Pay
                           <5                                     12 days (96 hours, .69)

                      5+                                   15 days (120 hours, 4.61)

                      10 +                                 18 days (144 hours, 5.53)

                      15 +                                 21 days (168 hours, 6.46)

                      20 +                                 24 days (192 hours, 7.38)



  2.   Change Juneteenth to June 19 to align with state


  3. Replaced Retirement Health Savings Acct with Sick leave conversion contribution to
     401K Plan

  4.
  Sick Leave Conversion Contribution – 401K/457(b) Plan - Deferred Compensation Sick
  Leave Conversion Contribution – All eligible employees participate in the City’s deferred
  compensation plan established under Internal Revenue Code Section 401K/457(b). The
  City may convert certain accrued sick leave balances into employer contributions to
  the plan in accordance with the provisions below.

       a. Contribution Source and Amounts - Sick leave converted in accordance with this
          policy will be contributed by the City as an employer contribution to the
          employee’s 401K/457(b) deferred compensation plan account.


       b. Transition Sick Leave Conversion - Employees with accrued sick leave balances
       exceeding one hundred eighty (180) hours as of June 30, 2026, shall be eligible for a
       one-time sick leave conversion contribution.

       The one-time contribution shall be calculated as follows:

                i.   Total accrued sick leave hours in excess of 180 hours as of June 30,
                     2026
         ii.   multiplied by ﬁfty percent (50%),

        iii.   multiplied by the employee’s hourly rate of pay as of June 30, 2026.

The resulting amount shall be contributed by the City to the employee’s 401K/457(b)
deferred compensation plan account.

Following this one-time conversion:

         i.    The employee’s sick leave balance shall be reduced to 180 hours; and

         ii.   No future annual sick leave conversion contributions shall be made
               under this policy.

c. Maximum Sick Leave Accrual - Effective July 1, 2026, employees may continue to
accrue sick leave; however, any accrued sick leave balance in excess of one
hundred eighty (180) hours as of June 30 of any year shall be forfeited and removed
from the employee’s accrued sick leave balance.



No cash payment or deferred compensation contribution shall be made for forfeited
hours.



d. Separation of Service Conversion - Upon separation from service, the City will
contribute an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the employee’s accrued sick
leave balance, multiplied by the employee’s ﬁnal hourly rate of pay, to the
employee’s 401K/457(b) deferred compensation plan account.

Sick leave hours in excess of one hundred eighty (180) hours are not eligible for
conversion upon separation from service.



e. Contribution Limits - All contributions made under this policy are subject to
applicable Internal Revenue Service contribution limits. If the calculated
contribution exceeds applicable annual limits, the contribution shall be reduced to
the maximum amount permitted under federal law.
Sidewalk Management Policy

Purpose

The purpose of the City of Holladay’s sidewalk management policy is to establish a proactive, systematic
approach to ensure sidewalks are safe, accessible, and compliant with applicable standards and laws.
This policy is designed to improve public safety, support ADA compliance, reduce liability exposure and
extend the life of sidewalk infrastructure.

Scope

This policy applies to all sidewalks, curb ramps, pedestrian pathways, crosswalks, and pedestrian-
related concrete infrastructure owned, operated, or maintained by the city, including:

   •     Public rights-of-way

   •     Parks and other public facilities

   •     Parking lots

   •     Trails and shared-use paths

Policy

During FY 2026-27, all sidewalks and pedestrian assets will be mapped and inventoried by segment using
GIS. Each segment should include:

   •     Location

   •     Length and width

   •     Surface type

   •     Age (if known)

   •     Adjacent land use

   •     ADA features (ramps, landings, detectable warnings)

   Inspections: Beginning in FY 2026-27, sidewalks will be inspected on a deﬁned cycle based on risk
   level:

                                              Inspection
Area Type
                                              Frequency

Holladay Village, schools, transit stops,
                                              1–2 times per year
parks
                                                  Inspection
Area Type
                                                  Frequency

Residential neighborhoods                         Every 2–3 years

Pedestrian pathways/trails /parking lots          Every 3–5 years

After major storms or construction                As needed



Inspections will document any vertical displacement (lips, cracks, heaving), surface defects, ADA
compliance (cross slope, running slope, ramp condition), Obstructions (vegetation, poles, utility
conﬂicts), drainage and ponding, and utility access covers, water meter and manhole covers.

Each sidewalk segment will be assigned a reduces liability exposure based on:

    •   Size of defect

    •   Trip hazard severity

    •   Pedestrian exposure

    •   ADA impact

    •   History of complaints or claims

Ratings will fall into:

    •   Priority 4 – <.25” of variation - No action required

    •   Priority 3 – .25-1” of variation - Monitor and schedule repair if between .5”-1”

    •   Priority 2 – 1-2” of variation - Repair required

    •   Priority 1 – >2” of variation - Immediate hazard; temporary mitigation required



Repairs: Subject to annual appropriations of the City Council, repairs will follow established engineering
and accessibility standards including:

    •   ADA and PROWAG requirements

    •   Local sidewalk design standards, particularly in Holladay Village

Projects will be prioritized using a risk-based model that considers:

    •   Safety risk (Priority 1 followed by Priority 2)
            o   Within 24 hours:

                      Clearly mark with safety yellow paint or close and barricade section.

                      Schedule for immediate repair/replacement as soon as possible

   •   ADA non-compliance

   •   Pedestrian volume

   •   Proximity to schools, transit, and public buildings

   •   Cost vs. beneﬁt

This ensures funding is spent where it reduces the greatest risk and improves accessibility the most.

Tracking:

All hazards, inspections, and repairs will be tracked in a centralized system.

The City of Holladay maintains a reporting system to allow the public to submit sidewalk concerns.
Complaints are logged, inspected within 24 hours, assigned a risk level, and tracked through resolution.
                                                                                                                                                6/1/2026




                                                                                                    City of Holladay
                                                                                                   Tentative Budget Presentation
                                                                                                       Fiscal Year 2026-2027




1




                                      Key Points of the UPD Tentative Budget

    • The UPD Board adopted/approved the tentative budget May 21, 2026.
    • The UPD Board had given direction of a 3.5% PBIM, with a goal of less than 3%.
    • The budget includes and overall (UPD wide) increase of 1.39% that includes these key points:
        •   2.5% COLA for all employees
        •   12% increase in health insurance premiums
        •   Civilian market study wage increases
        •   1 FTE / Lieutenant - Watch Commander
        •   1 FTE Officer – Crash, Analysis, Reconstruction Investigator
        •   Reorganization in Administration, Human Resources and Professional Standards Division
        •   Additional revenues – Granite School District ($15,000 increase per SRO, with $2,500 per year increase for four years)


                                                           City of Holladay
    • The overall cost increase for Holladay was 2.31%
        • This includes the cost sharing of a new FTE – Sergeant to supervise the traffic officers. This is split with the City of Millcreek.
        • Minimal day to day operational budget increase.
        • New revenues for Olympus High, Olympus Junior High and Bonneville Junior High where we have SROs.




2




                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6/1/2026




                                                                                        UNIFIED POLICE DEPARTMENT



                                                                            Executive Secretary
                                                                                                                  CHIEF OF POLICE                              Media Services Unit
                                                                                                                                                                 PIO Sergeant




                                                                                                                     Watch Command
                                                                                                                      2 Lieutenants




                                                    MUNICIPAL POLICE SERVICES                                                                        CITIES BASIC BUILD                                                    SLVLESA

                                                                                                                                MILLCREEK               HOLLADAY                     MIDVALE               MAGNA                        KEARNS
                     INVESTIGATIONS                 PROESSIONAL STANDARDS          TECH SERVICES                                                                                                           37 Sworn                     36 Sworn
                                                                                                        FISCAL / LEGAL             49 Sworn               36 Sworn                    52 Sworn
                         37 Sworn                           9 Sworn                   3 Sworn                                      4 Civilian             3 Civilian                  4 Civilian           3 Civilian                   3 Civilian
                        16 Civilian                        3 Civilian                                      8 Civilians
                                                                                     34 Civilian
                                                                                                                               Precinct Chief          Precinct Chief           Precinct Chief          Precinct Chief               Precinct Chief
                      Division Chief                     Division Chief              Division Chief        Fiscal Unit
                                                                                                                                 Lieutenant              Lieutenant                  Lieutenant           Lieutenant                   Lieutenant
                                                                                                              1 CFO
              Lieutenant           Lieutenant              Lieutenant                 Lieutenant           2 Managers                                                                                Office Coordinator
                                                                                                                             Office Coordinator      Office Coordinator       Office Supervisor                                  Office Coordinator
                                                                                                             3 Techs                                                             1 Records Tech           1 P/T Janitor                1 P/T Janitor
                                                                                                                                 2 Coordinators
                                                                                                                                                                                  1 Janitor P/T
           Office Supervisor   Office Coordinator        1 HR Generalist                                   Legal Unit              Patrol                  Patrol                                           Patrol                       Patrol
                                                                                   Web Administrator                            3 Sergeants                                         Patrol
                                                                                                            1 Attorney                                  2 Sergeants                                      5 Sergeants                  5 Sergeants
                                                                                                                                 25 Officers             15 Officers             3 Sergeants              19 Officers                  18 Officers
                                                                                                       1 Para/Purch/Grants
                                                          HR Sergeant             Office Coordinator                                                                              22 Officers
           Office Specialist        K9 Unit                                                                                    Investigations          Investigations           Investigations         Investigations
             2 Specialists           1 Sgt.                                                                                         Sergeant                                                                                    Investigations / SRO
                                                                                                                                                           Sergeant                 1 Sergeant            1 Sergeant
                                   4 Handlers                                                                                  1 COP Detective                                                                                          2 Sergeants
                                                       Office Coordinator            Records Unit                                                       2 PC Detectives       1 PC / COP Detective      1 PC Detective
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4 PC Detectives
                                                                                                                                4 PC Detective         3 SRO Detectives                                2 SRO Detectives
            Crime Analyst                                                              Manager                                 4 SRO Detectives
                                                                                                                                                                                2 SRO Detectives                                     1 COP Detective
                                                                                                                                                       1 Victim Advocate        1 Victim Advocate      1 Victim Advocate
                                                                                                                               1 Victim Advocate                                                                                     4 SRO Detectives
                                 S.W.A.T Team                                         Supervisor
            Special Victims                               Training Unit                                                                                                                                                              1 Victim Advocate
                                      1 Sgt.                                         GRAMA Coord
               Sergeant                                       1 Sgt.                                                         MILLCREEK ADD ONS      HOLLADAY ADD ONS         MIDVALE ADD ONS          Magna ADD ONS
                                    1 Officers                                         12 Techs
                8 Det.                                      3 Officers
                                  30 Operators
           1 Missing Persons                                                                                                     Detectives           Mental Health Unit             DEU EAST
                                  8 Negotiators)                                 Property & Evidence                               Sergeant              1 Detective                                         DEU
                                                     Secondary Employment                                                                                                             Sergeant
                                 8 Medics (UFA)                                        Manager                                   4 Detectives          1 P/T L.C.S.W                   1 Det.             2 Detectives
           Violent Crimes                               Coordinator P/T
              Sergeant                                                            Asset Supply Coord
                                                                                       5 Techs                                    DEU EAST                 Traffic                 Shelter
                7 Det.            Drone Unit
                                                         Internal Affairs                                                        2 Detectives             2 Motors                1 Sergeant                Traffic
           1 CAR Unit Det.          1 Sgt.                                           3 P/T Techs
                                                           2 Sergeants                                                                                                           6 Detectives              2 Officers
                                   13 Pilots
                                                                                                                                 Traffic / COP           DEU EAST
           DV / Fraud Unit                                                             Fleet Unit                                                       .05 Detective
                                                                                                                                                                                       Traffic
                                                                                                                                   Sergeant                                           2 Motors
              Sergeant                                                               Fleet Manager                                 3 Motors
                                Crossing Guard                                                                                                                                                            COPPERTON
                6 Det.                                                             Fleet Coordinator                                                  Code Enforcement
                                  Coordinator                                                                                                                                  Code Enforcement          .1 Deputy Chief
           1 Screening Det.                                                        Fleet Maint Coord                                                     1 Detective
                                                                                                                                                                                  1 Detective
                                                                                                                              Mental Health Unit                                                          .1 Lieutenant
                                                                                                                                 1 Detective                Bailiff                                       .50 Sergeant
                                                                                      Radio Shop                                 1 L.C.S.W.              1 Detective               WHITE CITY
           Task Force Det                                                               Manager                                                                                                             3 Officers
                                                                                                                                                                                     .25 Chief
           Metro Gang Det.                                                              2 Techs                                                                                   .25 Lieutenant     .1 Officer Coordinator
                                                                                                                                                          BRIGHTON
                                                                                       1 P/T Tech                             EMIGRATION CNYN                                     .25 Officer Sup      .1 Victim Advocate
                                                                                                                                    .05 Chief              .20 Chief
                                                                                                                                                        .20 Lieutenant          .25 Records Tech
              Forensics                                                                                                          .05 Lieutenant                                     1 Sergeant
               Manager                                                                                                          .05 Office Coord       .20 Office Coord
                                                                                                                                                                                    7 Officers
            8 Technicians                                                                                                     .05 Victim Advocate    .20 Victim Advocate              1.5 Det
              1 P/T Tech                                                                                                          .25 Sergeant           .75 Sergeant          .25 Victim Advocate
                                                                                                                                    2 Officers             6 Officers             .25 P/T Janitor

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UPD Total FTE:
                                                                                                                                                       LDS Hospital                                                                                 Sworn: 263
                                                                                                                                                           .05 Chief                                                                                Civilian: 69
                                                                                                                                                        .20 Lieutenant                                                                             Part Time: 10
                                                                                                                                                       .05 Office Coord                                                                             Total: 342
                                                                                                                                                     .05 Victim Advocate
                                                                                                                                                     2 Officers/Sergeant




3




           City of Holladay Direct Precinct Staffing
    • Precinct Chief - .75 (.20 Brighton, .05 LDS Hospital)
    • Lieutenant / Executive Officer - .60 (.20 Brighton, .20 LDS Hospital)
    • Office Coordinator - .75 (.20 Brighton, .05 LDS Hospital)
    • Victim Advocate - .75 (.20 Brighton, .05 LDS Hospital)
    • Detective/Administrative Sergeant - .25 (.75 Brighton)
    • Patrol Sergeants (5) - .33 (.66 Millcreek)
    • Traffic Sergeant - .33 (.66 Millcreek)
    • Patrol Officers, Detectives, Traffic Officers, Bailiff, Code Enforcement, SRO’s – 25.5 (.5 DEU)


                                       City of Holladay Total – 30.58
                                       Sworn members – 29.08
                                       Civilian Members – 1.5


4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                  6/1/2026




    UPD Wide Tentative Budget




5




    UPD Shared Services Formula




6




                                        3
Holladay is serviced by a
network of four fire
stations. Because
emergency response
algorithms prioritize
closest unit, Holladay
shares operational capacity
with Cottonwood Heights
and Millcreek.
