                               NOTICE OF A MEETING OF THE
                             CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                               THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2025

5:00 p.m.       Council Dinner – Council members will be eating dinner. No city business will be
                discussed.

5:30 p.m.       Briefing Session - The Council will review and discuss the agenda items; NO decisions
                will be made
                a. Wasatch Waste & Recycling District – New Director
                b. UPD Social Worker


PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a Council meeting
on Thursday, September 18, 2025, at 6:00 pm. Members of the Council may participate by
electronic means if needed. The Council Chambers shall serve as the anchor location.
* Agenda items may be moved in order, sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or linked in this agenda.
Interested parties are encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

Citizens desiring to make public comments or to make comments during any public hearing may provide
such comments as follows:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@cityofholladay.com


                                               AGENDA

I.      Welcome – Mayor Dahle

II.     Pledge of Allegiance

III.    Public Comments
        Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda may provide their
        comment via email to the Council before 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting to
        scarlson@holladayut.gov with the subject line: Public Comment. Comments are subject to the
        Public Comment Policy set forth below

IV.     Helping Hands Presentation

V.      Public Hearing on Proposed 2025-26 Budget Amendments

VI.     Public Hearing on Proposed Text Amendment to Title 13.86.020 to add 2052 E Arbor Lane to
        Holladay’s Historic Designation List

VII.    Consideration of Resolution 2025-24 Authorizing and Approving the Execution and Delivery
        of a Master Lease Agreement by and between the City and the Local Building Authority of
        the
          City of Holladay, Utah (the “Authority”); Authorizing the Issuance and Sale by the Authority
          of not more than $11,500,000 Aggregate Principal Amount of Lease Revenue Bonds; and
          Related Matters

VIII.     Consideration of Ordinance 2025-17 Amending Title 7 of the City Code Relating to Code
          Enforcement

IX.       City Manager Report - Gina Chamness

X.        Council Reports & District Issues

XI.      Closed Session for the Purpose(s) Described in U.C.A. 52-4-204 and 205 (if needed)

XII.     Adjourn




 Public Comment Policy & Procedure: During each regular Council Meeting there will be a Public Comment
 Time. The purpose of the Public Comment Time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council. Citizens requesting to
 address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and present it to the City Recorder. In general,
 the Chairman will allow an individual three minutes to address the Council. A spokesman, recognized as
 representing a group in attendance, may be allowed up to five minutes. Comments which cannot be made within
 these time limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting so
 they can be copied and distributed to the Council. At the conclusion of the Citizen Comment time, the Chairman
 may direct staff to assist the citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative
 department(s); or take no action. This policy also applies to all Public Hearings.



 CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
 I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above agenda notice was
 posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,
 and was emailed to the Salt Lake Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

 DATE POSTED: Tuesday, September 16, 2025 @ 4:30pm
 Stephanie N. Carlson MMC
 City Recorder City of Holladay

         Reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities or those needing language interpretation
      services can be provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at
             least three days in advance. TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
City of Holladay
Proposed Budget Amendment



                                                   FY26 Original                                      FY26 Proposed
General Ledger Account Description                   Budget             Proposed Change              Amended Budget                                Description
General Fund
Revenues
SLco Health Department Grant                             (72,185)                     (66,784)                (138,969) Happy Healthy Holladay Slco grant
       TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
                 ADJUSTMENTS - GENERAL FUND $            (72,185) $                  (66,784) $               (138,969)



Expenditures
Increase in Fund Balance                                 303,800                    (121,685)                 182,114 Decrease in contribution to fund balance
Public Health Programs                                    21,000                      71,969                   92,969 Happy Health Holladay Slco grant
                                                                                                                      Tax sharing agreement with Sequoia prior year greater than
Payment to Sequoia Development                            46,000                       4,000                   50,000 budget
Payment to SLCO for Hotel Loan                            37,500                     112,500                  150,000 SLCO Balloon payment for hotel loan
   TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENDITURE BUDGET
                 ADJUSTMENTS - GENERAL FUND $            408,300    $                 66,784 $                475,083

Grants Fund Fund
Revenues
                                                                                                                        HVAC improvements for City Hall Energy efficiency award
Energy Efficiency Grant                                 (100,000)                    (43,927)                 (143,927) greater than base budget
                                                                                                                        City match of UDOT Highland Drive reconstruction and
Transfer from CP for Highland                                -                      (261,418)                 (261,418) complete street project
                                                                                                                        UDOT reimbursement grant Phase II 4500 So. Sidewalk
UDOT 4500 So. Grant                                          -                      (267,350)                 (267,350) extension project
      TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
                 ADJUSTMENTS - GRANTS FUND $            (100,000) $                 (572,695) $               (672,695)

Expenses
                                                                                                                      HVAC improvements for City Hall energy effeciency award
City Hall Energy Improvements                            100,000                      43,927                  143,927 greater than base budget
Highland Drive UDOT project                                  -                       261,418                  261,418 Highland Drive reconstruction and complete street project
4500 So. Sidewalk Extension                                  -                       267,350                  267,350 Phase II 4500 So. Sidewalk extension project
         TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENSE BUDGET
                    ADJUSTMENTS -GRANTS FUND $           100,000    $                572,695 $                672,695

Capital Projects Fund
Revenues
Appropriated Fund Balance - Previous Cost Offset             -                     (1,800,000)              (1,800,000) Appropriation of prior year cost offset
Appropriated Fund Balance                               (336,469)                  (4,291,418)              (4,627,887) Increase in use of fund balance
        TOTAL RECOMMENDED REVENUE BUDGET
        ADJUSTMENTS - CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND $           (336,469) $                (6,091,418) $            (6,427,887)

Expenditures
                                                                                                                      Transfer to Grants Fund for Highland Drive complete street
Transfer to Grants for Highland                              -                       261,418                  261,418 project
Bike Lane Maintenance                                        -                        30,000                   30,000 General bike lane maintenance


Transfer to Local Building Authority                         -                     5,800,000                 5,800,000 Transfer to Local Building Authority for City Hall & Spring Lane
   TOTAL RECOMMENDED EXPENDITURE BUDGET
        ADJUSTMENTS - CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND $                -      $              6,091,418     $           6,091,418
                                            City of Holladay
                                        HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                  COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE: September 18th 2025
SUBJECT: Ordinance Amendment – 13.86.020; Historic Sites, Designated, “Dinwoodey Home” 2052 E Arbor Lane
SUBMITTED BY: Jonathan Teerlink, CED Director


ACTION:
Legislative. Ordinance amendments are to be reviewed and considered during a public hearing prior to a motion
of final decision/action as per procedures set for the Holladay Ord. §13.07.050.

SUMMARY:
Recent amendments to the Historic Designation process have provided a path forward for owners to add their
property to Holladay’s list of Historic sites. The proposed amendment, brought by the property owner, would
amend Title 13.86.020 of the City of Holladay, Land Use and Development Regulations after consideration of a
proposal to add 2052 E Arbor Lane, aka “The Dinwoodey Home” to Holladay’s Historic Designation list.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE, CONSIDERATIONS:
The purpose of the code amendment is primarily implementing the General Plan’s vision to recognize properties
in the city with historical significance. Chapter 13.86 is enacted to allow property owners a path to designate
their property in an effort to preserve sites, structures, landmarks or buildings with special historical,
architectural or aesthetic value which are unique and irreplaceable assets.

The address proposed to be added is not currently listed on a Register of Historic Places, but is being proposed
by the property owner as a property having historical “garden home” vernacular, significant to Holladay in the
late 1930s.

Once a site is designated by the City Council, the property owner may apply to the planning commission for
additional, site specific approvals such as additional land uses and associated site modifications.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES:
The following is a summary of the proposed changes to Title 13:
    • Sec. 13.86.020 Historic Sites Designated, provides a register of historic sites, as currently designated.
    • The register is proposed to amended to include, 2052 E Arbor Lane as residence of the Dinwoodey
         family, prominent owner of Dinwoodey Furniture, who built, lived and renovated the home during
         Holladay’s formative years.
                                             City of Holladay
                                         HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
SUMMARY OF HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE
The single -story English cottage-styled/Colonial Revival was constructed in 1939 for the Dinwoodey’s. The
property is uniquely situated of Highland Drive, near Big Cottonwood creek, a prominent location for suburban
garden estate of the late 1930s. The property was later twice improved in the 1940 & 1950s. These
improvements added square footage to the home while leaving the original structure largely intact.

The Dinwoodey’s themselves provided significance to the area through the ownership and operation of
Dinwoodey Furniture a “major institution in Utah, having been founded in 1857 by Paul's grandfather Henry
Dinwoodey and known for its high-quality furniture. Paul became vice-president and remained so until the store's
closing in 1985.” – Glaser narrative

GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE:
Historical location and preservation goals are found Chapter 2; Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood
Preservation (Page 12). The Historic Preservations section of this chapter highlights the applicant’s address as a
site that, “…have been identified as being of historic importance within the City, regardless of whether or not they
are in the Cottonwood Historic Area.”

RECOMMENDATION:
City Council shall hold the required public hearing and review the applicant’s presentation. It is the
recommendation of the Community and Economic Development Director to approve the proposal, based upon
the following findings;

CED, Director findings:
        1. The property owner has initiated the application, (§13.07.050C) and
        2. The property is older than the 50-year minimum requirment
        3. The property complies with §13.07.050.F(1)(3) as a property with “Historic integrity” and
            §13.07.050.F(4)(b) as a property with exceptional significance as, “closely associated with the lives of
            persons who were of historic importance to the community.”

STANDARDS for CONSIDERATION, FOR or AGAINST:
13.07.050 HISTORIC DESIGNATION:
    F. Criteria: Any district, building, structure, object or site listed by the National Register of Historic Places
       may be designated to the city's historic site register. Alternatively, any district building, object or site
       may be designated if the council finds it meets all the criteria outlined below:
            1. It is located within the city.
            2. It is at least fifty (50) years old.
            3. Historic integrity:
                                          City of Holladay
                                      HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
               a. It retains its historic integrity, in that there are no major alterations or additions that have
              obscured or destroyed the significant historic features. Major alterations that would destroy the
              historic integrity include, but are not limited to, changes in pitch of the main roof, enlargement or
              enclosure of windows on the principal facades, addition of upper stories or the removal of
              original upper stories, covering the exterior walls with non-historic materials, moving the
              resource from its original location to one that is dissimilar to the original, additions which
              significantly detract from or obscure the original form and appearance of the structure when
              viewed from the public way.



ATTACHMENTS:
Applicant Narrative
Property documentation
General Plan, Chapter 2

FISCAL IMPACT:
None

SUGGESTED MOTION:
Move to work meeting.
                                                                                                            13.86.020 Historic Register DRAFT
                                                                                                                          Council 09/16/2025

CHAPTER 13.86
HISTORIC PRESERVATION

SECTION:

13.86.010: Purpose
13.86.020: Historic Sites Register
13.86.030: Historic Site Modification Permit Conditional Use Permit Required
13.86.040: Noncomplying Conditional Uses
13.86.045: Protective Maintenance Required
13.86.050: Site Modification
13.86.060: Additional Uses For Historic Sites
13.86.065: Modification Defined
13.86.070: Interpretation Of Chapter



13.86.010: PURPOSE:

For the purpose of this chapter the term preservation shall refer to the act or process of applying measures necessary to sustain the
existing form, integrity, and materials of an historic property.

This chapter is enacted to establish a historic site register and to provide a sustainable means by which a property owner may
maintain a historic site designated by the city council. Provisions within this chapter intend to preserve sites, structures, landmarks
or buildings with special historical, architectural or aesthetic value which are unique and irreplaceable assets. To accomplish this
purpose, planning commission may approve conditional permits for additional land uses approval is required and all modifications to
historical sites. (Ord. 2012‐15, 9‐20‐2012; amd. Ord. 2024‐21, 11‐21‐2024)

13.86.020: HISTORIC SITES DESIGNATED:

 A. Existing Sites: Each of the following structures and sites in the city is designated a historic site and are subject to the provisions
and standards of this chapter:

   1.   David Branson Brinton home, 1981 East Murray‐Holladay Road, Holladay.
   2.   Santa Anna Casto home, 2731 Casto Lane, Holladay (relocated to City Hall Park, 2009).
   3.   William J. Bowthorpe home, 4910 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay.
   4.   George Boyes home, 4766 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay.
   5.   David McDonald home, 4659 Highland Drive, Holladay.
   6.   Dinwoodey Home, 2052 E Arbor Lane.


 B. Amendments: The city council may amend the above list of historic sites and structures, including removing or designating of
additional historic sites, subject to the amendment procedures in chapter 13.07.050 of this code. (Ord. 2012‐15, 9‐20‐2012; amd.
Ord. 2024‐21, 11‐21‐2024)

13.86.030: HISTORIC SITE MODIFICATION REQUIREMENTS CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:

  A. Modifications: A conditional use permit is required for any modifications to a historic site or structure, including modifications
to the landscaping, fencing or appearance of any lot, construction, alteration, relocation, improvement or conversion of a historic
site.

  B. Demolitions: A site listed on the Historic Site Register proposed to be demolished or extensively altered is subject to the
following:

   1. Upon verification of a complete permit, the city will delay issuing the modification permit for a maximum of thirty (30) days to
document the property. The property owner shall work with the city staff in the collaboration with other entities, where needed, in
providing access to the site for documentation process.

   2. Documentation shall include, at minimum, exterior photographs of all elevations of the structure. When possible, both
exterior and interior measurements of the structure will be made in order to provide an accurate floor‐plan drawing of the structure.
                                                                                                         13.86.020 Historic Register DRAFT
                                                                                                                       Council 09/16/2025
   3. The demolition permit will be issued after thirty (30) days of the initial application whether or not the city has completed
documenting the building. The permit may be issued earlier if documentation is completed before the thirty (30) day deadline.

   4. The documentation will be kept on file with the Community and Economic Development Department, which shall be open to
the public.

  C. Application: Applications for a conditional use permit on a historic site shall be made by the property owner in the manner and
subject to the procedures and requirements set forth in section 13.08.040 of this title. To the extent that the requirements of this
chapter and section 13.08.040 of this title are inconsistent, the requirements of this chapter shall prevail. (Ord. 2012‐15, 9‐20‐2012;
amd. Ord. 2024‐21, 11‐21‐2024)
                          HISTORIC SITE DESIGNATION APPLICATION
                               2052 E. ARBOR LANE, HOLLADAY

Summary

The Paul and Betty Dinwoodey Property (hereafter to be referred to as the Dinwoodey home or property)
is located along Big Cottonwood Creek at 2052 East Arbor Lane in Holladay. The home was built in
1939 as an English cottage-styled/Colonial Revival house. The Dinwoodey's completed a major addition
in 1956 in the Mid-Century Modern Ranch-style.

The home and property are a distinct example of the "Garden Home" Movement that was a formative part
of Holladay's early development. Many homes and estates constructed in Holladay during the late 19th-
century to the late 1940s were built as escapes from the polluted and denser inner city, largely thanks to
the wide adoption of the automobile. These homes were intended to have a distinct connection to their
natural settings, with dense plantings and utilizing adjacent features such as bodies of water and
expansive views.

The property is further significant in its representation of two distinct architectural styles: English-styled
cottage and Mid-Century Modern Ranch. These are two well-represented historic Holladay architectural
styles.

The home and property have maintained their historic integrity exceptionally well under both the
Dinwoodey's and the current property owners (there have only been two owners of this home). The
finishes, design, and layout of both sections of the home are aln1:ost entirely intact, representing two
distinct historic domestic styles from different decades with full integrity. The home retains many of the
original windows, floors, lights, cabinets, and even in places the wallpaper. The exterior of the home and
site itself, historic vegetation, yard elements and other landscaping has been well maintained as well.

The scale of the home and yard is also now a rarity in its Holladay neighborhood. Holladay has long been
a desirable place to live due to its old-growth foliage, prime-views and shady lanes - with home costs
soaring over the years in response. Homes have become larger, breaking over ten-thousand square feet in
many cases near the Dinwoodey property. In recent years, many of these smaller historic Holladay homes
have been replaced. The Dinwoodey home is a remarkable example of a rapidly dwindling number of
homes that tell the Holladay story.

Narrative Description

The original English cottage-styled/Colonial Revival, single-story masonry and wood frame structure was
completed in 1939 at the termination of a long gravel drive that situates the home at a distance from the
road. The original home was oriented parallel to the creek with ample room between for landscaping
beds, a garden, fruit trees, a large lawn, an outdoor entertainment area and a gardening shed. Its
orientation additionally provided unobstructed views of the Wasatch Range, with Mt. Olympus to the
north and Twin Peaks to the south. The original architect of the 193 9 structure has not been determined,
however, the home was originally designed for Paul and Betty.

In 1949, a small addition was added, extending the west corner of the house and adding an additional
bedroom as well as a bay window facing west. In 1956, the Dinwoodey's hired local architect Ashley T.
Carpenter, one of the first graduates of the University of Utah's newly established architectural graduate
program in 1950, to do a large Mid-Century masonry addition sitting on a concrete foundation. The
building was revamped by tearing down the north-eastern half of the house (garage, kitchen, hallway),
and reconfigured by adding a more contemporary kitchen space, dining room, another additional

                                                     Page 1
bedroom, two additional bathrooms, a garage, a cellar-basement and an unfinished attic space above, per
an extant set of architectural drawings. 1 The addition, although complementing the 1939 structure,
revamped the new exterior into a more typical Mid-Century Modern Ranch-style home, using weeping
mortar brick as the primary material, painted white. The original 1939 shingled structure can still be seen
intact when looking at the western portion of the home.

1939 Structure + 194 9 Addition:

The original west portion of the Dinwoodey home remains largely intact. Inside, this is easily
distinguished with a rise in floor elevation by a few steps accessed from the foyer and the dining room.
From the foyer, a narrow hallway with original fir flooring accesses the bedrooms and bathrooms to the
west. Towards the end of the hallway is a small nook built-in desk surrounded by original wallpaper and
an original cylinder pendant above. Two additional rooms from the 1956 addition were added and are
accessed through the 1939 hall (descriptions of these spaces are in 1956 section of this report). These can
be identified as part of the addition as they both are recessed onto the same grading as the rest of the 1956
addition, as well as exposed brick walls.

Two bedrooms and a bathroom cap the end of the hall. The bathroom has since been updated and no
longer has its 1939 features. In both bedrooms, the original flooring, light fixtures, registers, hardware,
doors, and some of the historic windows are all still extant. In the master bedrooms (north bedroom), only
the picture window is historic, with the others having been replaced in kind. In the south bedroom, both
windows are original.

The master bedroom was enlarged in 1949 with the addition of a bay window and more square footage.
The hipped roof above this additional space is likely original to this 1949 addition as well. Historic
finishes here too were maintained, including the original built-in casework complete with storage space
and pull-out folding tables for laundry. The size, configuration and use of design elements, such as pull
out tables, further represents the effects the Depression had on domestic life, with many owning only a
necessary amount of clothing and personal belongings.

Also accessed from the hallway is a large living room space at the rear of the home. This room is
primarily intact to its 1939 condition, except for a modern fire insert and some updated can-lighting above
the mantle. The original fir flooring, molding, casework, mantle, and door with sidelights are all in great
condition to this day. The door and sidelights with horizontal panes accentuate views outside, particularly
towards the creek and mountains, and open to the outdoor entertainment space.

Outside, the original 1939 structure can be identified by the shingled siding that still clads the exterior
walls. The current cladding is painted white. Due to extensive work on the roofline in 1956 that blended
the addition with the existing structure, the original 1939 roof form cannot be determined. However, the
historic 1939 chimney stack is still in place.                                                   ·

The majority of the original single-pane windows are still extant, mainly using a six-over-six and eight-
over-eight muntin pattern. A few have been replaced; this was done in-kind with the new windows being
of the same style as the old. Historic-referencing exterior shutters flank either side of the windows, as
they were replaced in-kind due to deterioration. The original entrance to the home from the front is no
longer in place and was likely absorbed by the 1956 addition.


1
  Carpenter, Ashley T. (1956). An Addition to the Residence of Mr. & Mrs. Paul Dinwoodey. Architectural drawing set. Retrieved from Camille
Pierce and Steven Glaser.



                                                                 Page2
 Turning to the yard, a handful of features that exist today can be linked back to the 1939 design of the
 property. Towards the rear of the property near the creek, a monolithic stone table is still in place, with
 wood stumps used as seating. In the front yard, the historic gravel drive is still in place and maintains its
 original placement. Much of the plantings, vegetation, and sitework overall (much of which was watered
 by an irrigation canal still present on the property) is original to the property's historic condition. The
 original property itself was a much larger acreage than what exists today, as the Dinwoodey's sold off
 sections of their land over time. However, the primary land used by the family is still part of the existing
 acreage today.

 1956 Addition:

 The 1956 frame and masonry section of the home, designed by local architect Ashley T. Carpenter over a
 poured-concrete foundation doweled into the existing 1939 foundation, replaced the eastern portion of the
 earlier home. As mentioned previously with the original portion of the home, the 1956 pmtion offers its
 own distinctive mid-century style that is still largely intact. While both phases of the home blend well,
 they also are independent in their design and finishes which can still be seen today. To make room for the
 new addition, the historic kitchen, garage and a few secondary spaces were demolished.

 As one enters the home today from the front Dutch door entrance, visitors enter an updated foyer as part
 of the 1956 addition. Upon entering the foyer, one can head right to access the older part of the home,
 move forward and enter the newer dining room and kitchen, or turn left and access the stair leading to the
 upper-level space in the attic of the addition or the laundry room through an adjacent door.

  While the 1939 sections of the home are delineated with a change in floor elevation and being a few steps
  up, all of the 1956 work maintains the same grade as the foyer. The finishes of the foyer are almost
  entirely original and period-appropriate, with vertical tongue-and-groove fir wood paneling and trim, a
· gridded light-tan quarry-tile floor, and an exposed-brick accent wall opposite of the entry door made of
  polychromatic reused brick from the portion of the 1939 home that was torn down.

 Leaving the foyer into the 1939 western portion of the home, two additional spaces were added. These
 spaces, a new bedroom and a bathroom, are accessed from the original hall. In keeping with the theme of
 the addition, these two spaces· are set at a lower grade, causing users to step back down into these spaces.
 The vanity and a few of the fixtures in the bathroom are historic, however the floor and shower have since
 been replaced. In the bedroom, a large built-in was included for closet and shelving space. The north wall,
 like many throughout the addition, utilizes exposed brick as its finish material. Here the brick has been
 painted.

 Moving directly through the foyer accesses one of the property's most "character-defining" spaces, the
 1956 dining room. Here, vertical fir paneling is continued on multiple walls, blending with a fantastic
 mahogany and pine built-in system, along the eastern wall of the room. The built-in includes upper
 cabinets with louvered-panel doors, a counter space, and additional cabinets below. The center lower
 cabinet was designed to house a television according to the 1956 Carpenter blueprints (ELEV 06). A few
 of the cabinet doors have been outfitted with lockable hardware for added security for the family's
 chinaware collection.

 The southeastern wall is largely made of an original sliding Pella door, offering expansive views of the
 rear yard in addition to providing a direct tie to the entertaining space located directly outside of the
 dining room. To the right of this wall is a custom fireplace, complete with an asymmetrical brick hearth
 and wood mantel above. The brick used in the fireplace was reused similar to the foyer accent wall. A
 copper hood called for in the drawings is either no longer extant or was never installed.


                                                      Page 3
To the west is an opening accessing the 1939 family room, raised above a few steps where the floor
elevation changes. This opening can be closed or opened, using two historic louvered bi-fold doors that
match the assembly of the cabinets directly across the space. An original speaker is still in place mounted
next to one of the exposed ceiling beams above.

The floors of the dining room have been more recently replaced with an "in-kind" matching cork
material. The walls that are not covered in wood paneling are finished with woven grass wallpaper,
painted a muted green. This green color has been maintained and confirmed to be the original color
according to an interview with Devereaux Dinwoodey, Paul and Betty's son.

Above the dining table is a large metal chandelier which has been professionally identified as a Stiffel
design. The chandelier itself is mounted to the second of four exposed 4"xl O" wood beams above, each of
which has a chamfered edge detail running along each exposed corner. Additionally, spanning each truss
is an exposed lap ceiling, each with a chamfered edge detail as well.                         ·

Moving eastward through the space leads one into the newer 1956 kitchen, which like the dining room, is
character-defining and offers an array of mid-century finishes and custom details. The kitchen space is
divided along the north end by a hallway accessing a pantry, bathroom, and mudroom at the end. These
spaces are simply finished and maintain much of their historic characteristics, with the current owners
adding additional storage referencing the 1956 design.

Back towards the kitchen, the cabinetry is used furthermore to delineate space, including a run of floor-to-
ceiling casework along the hall itself. A small opening exists below the uppers and above the counter
itself, making both sides usable. All mahogany cabinets are faced with a flat panel and use a unique finger
pull made of identical species for operation. The current counters are not historic, as they replaced a vinyl
composite with a Silestone material niore recently. The lower drawers adjacent to the range were mounted
on rollers so they can be accessed from either the hallway or kitchen itself. Other cabinets include custom
tray dividers and spaces for storing specific kitchen items.

                                                               '
                                                     . as an A~ana Radarange microwave from 1978 and
A few of the historic appliances are still intact, such
the Trade Wind hood above the range which was installed inside the upper cabinet. Other appliances were
replaced over time. On the kitchen side, a cabinet peninsula extrudes from the center, complete with an
over-sized sink basin used to clean out game (particularly fish) and a double-sided glass cabinet above.

The floors, like in the dining space, are finished in a newer cork material, although historically they were
linoleum in the kitchen. A square flush-mounted light fixture is centered above the kitchen space, with an
additional historic cylinder fixture in the hall section.

Closer to the rear of the room, large picture windows butted to a corner provides expansive natural light.
Also in this corner is a small, non-historic, built-in breakfast nook that provides bench seating around a
small table. On the east side of the room, a long horizontal window was implemented instead of a
backsplash, alluding heavily to the addition's "modernist" design. The walls are finished with the inside
face of the wall's brick, painted a taupe-peach color. Next to a rear historic Dutch-door and screen, which
accesses the rear patio, is a small built-in telephone shelf.

Under the kitchen is a 13 'xl 9' cellar space with a concrete floor coated in "Anti-Hydro" waterproofing,
accessed externally by a pair of metal doors which are still in place today. The current owners use this
basement space as a wine cellar, in addition to it housing the home's HVAC and water heater.

Returning back to the foyer, users are able to access the upper attic space through a stairwell behind a
door on the east wall. In the 1956 design, just the stairwell was finished, leaving the attic space itself

                                                    Page 4
unfinished. The stairs and sconce lights are all original to the 1956 addition. The attic space above
straddles part of the garage and the kitchen hallway and bathroom below. The attic space's east-facing
windows are original, including unique chain-crank operation for opening. The garage was designed to
house two cars and a workspace and was left primarily unfinished with no defining features. The
overhead 7'x16' garage door is a 1956 original, with Mid-Century detailing on the exterior.

Outside at the front of the home, the new addition included a large entry porch inset under the roof above
and supported by original square columns. In front of the entrance next to the entry walk is an original
light pole from the 1956 addition.

At the rear of the home and accessed directly from the 1939 living room, 1956 dining room, and kitchen,
is a large patio space. The architect included in his plans to build an exterior grill and cooking space,
however this was removed later on by the Dinwoodeys. Architectural plans also called for asphalting the
drive; however, this did not occur.

As mentioned previously for the exterior, the addition itself was intentionally designed to mesh well with
the existing structure, creating an overall appearance that is cohesive and somewhat difficult to
differentiate. Clad in light-grey shingles, the roof line was extended over both segments of the home with
a long ridge capped with a gabled end to the east and a Dutch vented-gable to the west. To the rear of the
home, a smaller gabled roof protrudes south over the new kitchen space with a horizontal vent at the peak
of the eave. The 1939 materials were extended into the addition's facade, such as wood cladding and use
of shingles in the eaves.

Windows altogether, especially in the front, are cohesive in appearance and maintain scale. In the rear, a
bit more liberty was utilized by implementing larger fixed windows to take advantage of rear views of the
yard, creek and mountains. The color palette of the exterior remains simple, with brick and the 1939 wood
siding painted white and board and batten eaves and other wood details painted green. This appears to
have been maintained since the end of the 50s, or when the earliest photo of the home in possession was
taken.

A wood-framed gardening shed, which can be found at the eastern edge of the property, resembles a
smaller cottage. Although its date of construction is not known, conversations with Devereaux confirm it
was built sometime in the 1970s. The structure is wood-framed, clad with shingles similar to the 1939
house and a wood-shake roof. On top of the roof is a small, squared vented cupola. Exterior shutters flank
the windows, with board-and-batten in both eaves of the gabled roof. The interior is largely unfinished,
with space for storage and a workbench space for potting.

Later Additions:

While most of the home and property itself still exhibits the majority of its historic condition, a few later
additions have occurred. These additions have almost entirely been made in attempt to reference the
original 1939 and 1956 designs. In 2002, the current owners of the property finished out the attic space
above the garage as an additional entertainment space. Here, the current owners were considerably careful
in finishing the space while attempting to carry through characteristics found in the 1956 portion of the
home below. A few examples include a custom wet bar with matching pulls to that of the kitchen,
expansive skylights offering direct natural views, and additional custom shelving in alcoves. Downstairs,
a skylight was added in the foyer for additional lighting. Additionally, solar tubes were added in the 1939
hall and the 1956 front bath.




                                                   Page 5
     Significant Dates
      1938-39: Dinwoodey's purchase land and construct original home
      1949: Small front addition
      1956: Ashley T. Carpenter addition
      1991: Sold to Camille Pierce


HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE: SOCIAL HISTORY

The Paul and Betty Dinwoodey Home is significant locally, particularly in the area of Social History. As
evidenced by how the home and property were designed and utilized, the property is a distinct, and late,
example of the "Garden Home" Movement which can be argued as unique to Holladay' s early
development.

Many homes and estates constructed in Holladay during the late 19th-century to the late 1940s were built
as "escapes" from the polluted and denser inner city while maintaining quick and easy access to the
benefits of the city. This opportunity arose as a result of advancements in transportation, first with light
commuter rail and then the automobile. Additionally, these homes were intended to have a distinct
connection to their natural settings, having dense plantings and utilizing adjacent features such as bodies
of water and expansive views. The Dinwoodey home is a well-intact example of this movement.

Given Holladay' s positioning at the base of the Wasatch Mountains and the mouth of Big Cottonwood
Canyon with Big Cottonwood Creek flowing through, the area quickly became a desirable place to settle
in the late 1800s and early 20th century. The Dinwoodey Home in Holladay is one of the few remaining
early cases of such homes in the area and is an eighty-six-year-old example of a trend in Holladay that
many might argue still exists today.

Fleeing urban density, crime, and pollution in the United States is a pattern with extensive roots in
American values. As Peter 0. Muller states in his essay titled, "The Evolution of American Suburbs: A
Geographical Interpretation," (1977) the following:

     Central to an understanding of the evolution of suburban forms in America is a set of values and
     beliefs deeply ingrained in the American national character and native culture: the so-called rural
     ideal, which "pulled" Americans toward the outskirts. The philosophical roots of this idea lie in the
     Jeffersonian perception of democracy, particularly in its interpretation of the agrarian doctrine of the
     eighteenth-century Enlightenment. 2

Beginning in the Interwar Period ( 1918-193 9), films and television began further popularizing suburban
life as connected with the "good life" by painting a picture of a routine of ease and daily refuge.
Additionally, during the Interwar Period, suburban growth took over as the predominant form of
American living, outpacing urban cities which were losing residents. 3 This change in trend is largely
attributed to the mass adoption of the automobile in the 1920s which drastically cut down on commute
times.

Muller goes on to note how during the 1930s and the advent of global economic hardship, suburban
communities were impacted much less than their urban counterparts. The state of Utah was one of the

2
  Muller, Peter 0. "The Evolution of American Suburbs: A Geographical Interpretation." Urbanism Past & Present, Number 04. (pp. l ),
Summer 1977.
3
  Muller, Peter 0. "The Evolution of American Suburbs: A Geographical Interpretation." Urbanism Past & Present, Number 04. (pp. 1 FIG. 1),
Summer 1977.

                                                                 Page 6
hardest hit states during the Great Depression (1929-1939) with a 35.8% unemployment rate, placing it as
the fourth most severely impacted state in the US.4 Because of this, most home building came to a halt
during this period. However, the Holladay area fared rather well, with one 1932 real estate article in the
Murray Eagle stating, "There is no depression in Holladay ( ... ) more new homes are needed to supply the
new home seekers who want to get away from the smoke of the city andenjoy the beautiful-air of this
region." 5 The natural beauty of Holladay and its many benefits were a common theme in many newspaper
advertisements and editorials highlighting the area, with one claiming:

    No detraction from the beauty of the gardens of Holladay has been made by crowding of houses, but
    the added beauty of architecture, the increased convenience of modern homes, and the developed
    inheritance of natural pride of the Pioneers have made of Holladay a masterpiece in art - a beautiful
    painting alive and filled with living, walking, pulsating human souls. ( ... ) The well-kept homes, the
    deep nap of gre[ e]n lawn, the tapestry of shrubbery, the neat groom of orchards, the surgery of trees,
    the richness of gardens, and the profusion of flowers reflect the industry, the happiness, the
    contentment and prosperity ofHolladay. 6

Another 1932 advert in the Murray Eagle lures readers into the possibility of their own "home of
dreams," stating "Let the Holladay Realtor drive you among the gardens and homes that form a real
paradise of magic beauty, along winding roads and shady lanes - away from the depressing spirit of
industrial centers of idleness and crime."7 One 1935 listing in the Murray Eagle, titled "ESSENTIALS OF
THE ENGLISH STYLE AT MODERATE COST," notes the unique characteristics of an English-styled
home with cross-ventilation using windows, small rooms and reduced variety in material and form to
support lower costs. 8

The Dinwoodey Home in Holladay represents a rebound in this type of living following a decade of
economic downturn. These Holladay homes started becoming more affordable and reasonably scaled,
enlarging the opportunity for those with less wealth to attain a more rural lifestyle. Although the
Dinwoodey Home still represents a level of wealth, Paul and Betty's property is arguably humble -
especially when compared to others, such as the Walker "Glenwood" estate (est. 1875) and the John
Judge Summer Home which offer much grander estates.

However, over the last two decades, modest homes have rapidly been torn down and replaced by
residences that typically far exceed 4,000 square feet and consume landscaped space. These newer
structures shift the paradigm away from a rural escape where homes were screened from each other by
dense landscapes.

Paul and Betty Dinwoodey sought their own natural property to start their life together following their
union in 193 7 .9 They selected a large parcel of land in Holladay straddling Big Cottonwood Creek and
served by an irrigation canal on Arbor Lane where they constructed a modest 2-bedroom English-styled
cottage home ... The original size of the property, according to an interview with their son Devereaux, was
said to include what is now 4986 S. Fairbrook Lane and a portion of the Holladay Cemetery.

There are also aspects of the Dinwoodey's lives that have historical significance, both to Holladay and
Utah. Dinwoodey Furniture was a major institution in Utah, having been founded in 1857 by Paul's

4
   McCormick, John S. (1994). "The Great Depression." Utah History Encyclopedia. Retrieved from History To Go:
https ://historytogo. utah.gov/ great-depression/
5
   "$12,000 SPENT FOR NEW HOLLADAY HOMES." Murray Eagle, June 9u', 1932.
6
   "Holladay's Captivating Gardens Make Paradise of Magic Beauty." Murray Eagle, June 9u1, 1932
7
   "Holladay Homes Are the Homes of your Dreams." Murray Eagle, June 23 rd, 1932 (pp.5).
8
   "ESSENTIALS OF THE ENGLISH STYLE AT MODERATE COST." The Salt Lake Tribune, May 19t11, 1935.
9
   "Announcement of S.L. Couple's Wedding Made." The Salt Lake Tribune. September st11, 1936.


                                                                Page 7
grandfather Henry Dinwoodey and known for its high quality furniture. Paul became vice-president and
remained so until the store's closing in 1985.

The Dinwoodey pair were avid naturalists, taking full advantage of Utah's natural offerings. The couple
were avid skiers, gardeners, and bird enthusiasts, confirmed in Paul's obituary where the family requests
donations to the Audubon Society in lieu of flowers. Io Paul also placed bird feeders at every window,
ensuring Betty would be able to see her favorite birds through the home's many views to the surrounding
yard. The two trained hunting dogs and fished often, likely the reason for the oversized sink in the kitchen
used for cleaning catch and game, and both had a deep love for working their yard.II                        ·

Paul Dinwoodey was also known as a master gardener. The gardening shed acquired the moniker "Paul's
·Potting Palace", as he would start plants there every year.

Paul was recognized for being one of the early advocates for the Utah Ski scene, which was documented
in his 1987 interview with the Utah Ski Archives Oral History Project. In 1939, he was made one of the
directors of the Alpine Ski Club. 12


HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE: ARCHITECTURE

The property is also significant in its representation of two distinct architectural styles: English-styled
Cottage and Mid-Century Modern Ranch. The home is a unique blend of two well-represented historic
Holladay architectural styles.

The home offers an excellent look at these styles today as it has been exceedingly well-preserved, with
almost all of its historic features intact. Many of these features are character-defining for their
appropriate styles. Regular care from the Dinwoodeys and intense respect from the current owners have
maintained this site for contemporary generations to experience and reflect upon. From wall finishes,
fixtures, and windows to exterior plantings, cladding, and site elements, the property's authenticity is
unmatched when compared to most homes in the smTounding community. The available 1956
architectural drawings by architect Ashley T. Carpenter confirm credibility for much of the Mid-Century
finishes and design intents, and also illustrate the custom approach to many of these items.

The scale of the home and yard are also now a unique case in its Holladay neighborhood. As
aforementioned, Holladay has long been a desirable place to live due to its old-growth foliage, prime-
views, and shady lanes - with home costs soaring over the years in response. Homes have become larger,
breaking over ten-thousand square feet in many cases near the Dinwoodey Property. In recent years,
many of these smaller historic Holladay homes have been replaced, making the Dinwoodey home even
more crucial to the Holladay story.




10
     "Paul D. Dinwoodey." Obituary, The Salt Lake Tribune. October 22nd, 1990.
11
     "Betty Ruth Thompson Dinwoodey." Obituary. The Salt Lake Tribune. March 2?11\ 1997.
12
     "ALPINE SKI CLUB NAMES DIRECTORS." Salt Lake Telegram. March 1st, 1939 (pp.14).


                                                              Page 8
Bibliography

    "$12,000 SPENT FOR NEW HOLLADAY HOMES." Murray Eagle, June 9t11, 1932.

    "Alpine Ski Club Names Directors." Salt Lake Telegram, March 1st, 1939 (pp. 14).

    "Announcement of S.L. Couple's Wedding Made." The Salt Lake Tribune. September gt\ 1936.

    "Betty Ruth Thompson Dinwoodey." Obituary. The Salt Lake Tribune. March 2i'\ 1997.

    Day, Frank M. (1927). American Country Houses of Today. Architectural Book Publishing Co.,
       New York.

    Dinwoodey, Paul D. "Paul and Betty Dinwoodey." Interview by Joseph Arave. July 19t\ 1989.
       Utah Ski Archives Oral History Project, The University of Utah. Salt Lake City, Utah.

    "Dr. Springer Sells Estate in Holladay." The Salt Lake Tribune, May 19t\ 1935.

    "ESSENTIALS OF THE ENGLISH STYLE AT MODERATE COST." The Salt Lake Tribune,
       May 19t\ 1935.

    "Flowers: Retiring S.L. Business Man Finds Peaceful Pastoral Life On Beautiful Holladay
        Estate." The Deseret News, Oct 9t\ 1937.

    Carpenter, Ashley T. (1956). An Addition to the Residence of Mr. & Mrs. Paul Dinwoodey.
       Architectural drawing set. Retrieved from Camille Pierce and Steven Glaser.

    Chegwidden, Maud (1935). "Ryberg Garden, a Bit of England Transferred to Holladay, Delights
       Art Lovers, With Celebrated Gardener Receiving Great Credit." Salt Lake Telegram, August
       24t'\ 1935.

    "Holladay's Captivating Gardens·Make Paradise of Magic Beauty." Murray Eagle, June 9t\
       1932.

    "Holladay Gardeners Will Form New Club." Salt Lake Telegram, December 3rct, 1935.

    "Holladay Home." The Salt Lake Tribune, April 24t11, 1938.

    "Holladay Ho~es." The Deseret News, Sep. 23rct, 1943.

    "Holladay Homes Are the Homes of your Dreams." Murray Eagle, June 23 rd , 1932 (pp.5).

    Lang, Robert. "The Six Suburban Eras of the United States." Opolis, Volume 2, Nuniber 01:
       Winter 2006.

    McCormick, John S. (1994). "The Great Depression." Utah History Encyclopedia. Retrieved
      from History To Go: https://historytogo.utah.gov/great-depression/




                                             Page 9
Muller, Peter 0. "The Evolution of American Suburbs:' A Geographical Interpretation." Urbanism
   Past & Present, Number 04. (pp. 1-10), Summer 1977.

"Paul D. Dinwoodey." Obituary, The Salt Lake Tribune. October 22 nd, 1990.

"Society." The Salt Lake Tribune, July 10t1\ 1904.

"Suburban Home Sale Heads Real Estate Deals." The Salt Lake Tribune. August 29t\ 1937.




                                         Page 10
                                   RESOLUTION NO. ______

         A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY,
         UTAH AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING THE EXECUTION AND
         DELIVERY OF A MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN THE
         CITY AND THE LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
         HOLLADAY, UTAH (THE “AUTHORITY”) AND A GROUND LEASE
         AGREEMENT; AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE BY THE
         AUTHORITY OF ITS LEASE REVENUE BONDS, SERIES 2025, IN AN
         AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT MORE THAN $11,500,000;
         AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY BY
         THE AUTHORITY OF A GENERAL INDENTURE OF TRUST, A
         SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE OF TRUST, BOND PURCHASE
         CONTRACT, CERTAIN SECURITY DOCUMENTS, AND OTHER
         DOCUMENTS REQUIRED IN CONNECTION THEREWITH; AUTHORIZING
         AND APPROVING THE DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF A PRELIMINARY
         OFFICIAL STATEMENT AND AN OFFICIAL STATEMENT; AUTHORIZING
         THE TAKING OF ALL OTHER ACTIONS NECESSARY TO THE
         CONSUMMATION OF THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED BY THIS
         RESOLUTION; RATIFYING ALL OTHER ACTIONS PREVIOUSLY TAKEN
         AUTHORIZING THE CREATION OF THE AUTHORITY; AND RELATED
         MATTERS.

       WHEREAS, the City Council (the “Council”) of the City of Holladay, Utah (the “City”)
has previously authorized and directed the creation of the Local Building Authority of the City of
Holladay, Utah (the “Authority”); and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to the direction of the City, the Authority has been duly and regularly
created, established and is organized and existing as a nonprofit corporation under and by virtue
of the provisions of the Constitution and laws of the State of Utah, including, in particular, the
provisions of the Local Building Authority Act, Title 17D, Chapter 2, Utah Code Annotated 1953,
as amended (the “Building Authority Act”); and

        WHEREAS, under the Articles of Incorporation of the Authority (the “Articles”), the
objects and purposes for which the Authority has been founded and incorporated are to construct,
acquire, improve or extend one or more projects and to finance their costs on behalf of the
Authority in accordance with the procedures and subject to the limitations of the Building
Authority Act in order to accomplish the public purpose for which the City exists; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Building Authority Act and the Local
Government Bonding Act, Title 11, Chapter 14, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended (together,
the “Act”), and under the direction of the City, the Governing Board of the Authority (the
“Governing Board”) has the authority to issue the Authority’s Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025
(the “Series 2025 Bonds”) (to be issued in one or more series and with such other series or title
designation(s) as may be determined by the Authority) in an aggregate principal amount of not to
exceed Eleven Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($11,500,000) to (a) finance all or a
portion of the costs of (i) the acquisition and construction of a park and recreation facility and all


4923-6281-6609, v. 5                             2
related improvements, (ii) the renovation, retrofit and improvements of a city hall, including
seismic upgrades and related improvements and (iii) the improvements of other city facilities,
including parks and roadways, and related improvements (collectively, the “Series 2025 Project”),
(b) fund any required deposits to a debt service reserve fund and (c) pay costs associated with the
issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds; and

       WHEREAS, the Series 2025 Bonds are to be issued pursuant to a General Indenture of
Trust (the “General Indenture”) and a First Supplemental Indenture of Trust (the “First
Supplemental Indenture” and together with the General Indenture, the “Indenture”), each by and
between the Authority and a trustee, substantially in the forms presented to the Council at this
meeting and are attached hereto as Exhibit B; and

        WHEREAS, it is anticipated that the City will be the owner of a fee simple or have a
leasehold interest to the site on which the Series 2025 Project may be located and the City desires
to lease such property to the Authority pursuant to the terms and provisions of a Ground Lease
Agreement (the “Ground Lease”), in substantially the form presented to the Council at this
meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit C and herein authorized and approved; and

        WHEREAS, the Series 2025 Project is to be leased to the City, on an annually renewable
basis, by the Authority pursuant to the terms and provisions of a Master Lease Agreement (the
“Lease”), by and between the Authority and the City, in substantially the form presented to the
Council at this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit D; and

        WHEREAS, to further secure its payment obligations under the Indenture, the Authority
proposes to grant a lien on and security interest in the Series 2025 Project pursuant to: (i) a
Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement and (ii) an Assignment of
Ground Lease in substantially the forms presented to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit
E (collectively the “Security Documents”); and

       WHEREAS, the Authority by its Resolution dated the date hereof (the “Authority
Resolution”) has or is expected to authorize, approve and direct (i) the execution of the Indenture,
the Ground Lease, the Lease, and the Security Documents; (ii) the issuance of the Series 2025
Bonds; and (iii) the financing of the Series 2025 Project; and

        WHEREAS, there has been presented to the Council at this meeting a form of a Bond
Purchase Contract (the “Bond Purchase Contract”) to be entered into among the Authority, the
City and a purchaser/underwriter selected by the Authority for the Series 2025 Bonds (the
“Purchaser/Underwriter”), in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit F, in the event that
the Series 2025 Bonds are not sold pursuant to a public bid with an official notice of bond sale or
similar document; and

       WHEREAS, in connection with the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds, the City desires to
authorize the use and distribution of a Preliminary Official Statement (the “Preliminary Official
Statement”) in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit H, and to approve a final Official
Statement (the “Official Statement”) in substantially the form as the Preliminary Official
Statement, and other documents relating thereto; and




4923-6281-6609, v. 5                            3
         WHEREAS, (i) the plans and specifications for the Series 2025 Project, including a
certificate of the engineer/architect responsible for planning the Series 2025 Project (which
certificate sets forth the estimated useful life of the Series 2025 Project) and (ii) the estimated costs
of the Series 2025 Project are set forth in Exhibit G hereto and are hereby submitted to the Council
for its approval; and

       WHEREAS, the Authority may not exercise any of its powers without prior authorization
by the City, and therefore it is necessary that the City authorize certain actions by the Authority in
connection with the transactions contemplated hereby in connection with the issuance of the Series
2025 Bonds; and

        WHEREAS, the City desires to improve and promote the local health and general welfare
of the citizens of the City by entering into the documents and taking the actions described above;
and

        WHEREAS, the City desires to (i) approve and direct the execution of the Ground Lease,
the Bond Purchase Contract, and the Lease by the City; (ii) authorize the issuance of the Series
2025 Bonds and the financing of the Series 2025 Project by the Authority; (iii) authorize the
execution of the Ground Lease, the Lease, the Indenture, the Bond Purchase Contract, and the
Security Documents by the Authority; (iv) approve the plans and specifications for the Series 2025
Project and the estimated costs of the Series 2025 Project; (v) ratify all actions previously taken
by the City and the Authority in connection with the creation of the Authority; and (vi) authorize
certain other acts to be taken by the Authority in connection therewith.

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
HOLLADAY, UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.      All terms defined in the recitals hereto shall have the same meaning when
used herein. All actions heretofore taken (not inconsistent with the provisions of this Resolution)
by the City in connection with the creation of the Authority, and by the City and by the officers of
the Authority directed toward the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds and the financing of the Series
2025 Project are hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.

        Section 2.      The City hereby finds and determines, pursuant to the Constitution and laws
of the State of Utah, that the leasing of the Series 2025 Project under the terms and provisions and
for the purposes set forth in the Lease and the other documents, instruments and conveyances
hereinafter approved and authorized, is necessary, convenient and in furtherance of the
governmental and proprietary purposes of the City and is in the best interest of the citizens of the
City, and the City hereby authorizes, approves and directs the issuance and sale of the Series 2025
Bonds by the Authority in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and the leasing of the
Series 2025 Project in the manner provided in the Lease and the Ground Lease.

         Section 3.    The Ground Lease, the Lease, the Indenture, the Security Documents and
the Bond Purchase Contract, in substantially the respective forms presented to the Council at this
meeting and attached hereto as exhibits, are in all respects approved, authorized, and confirmed,
and the Mayor or the Mayor pro tem, in the absence of the Mayor, is authorized to approve the
final terms thereof and to execute and deliver the Ground Lease, the Lease and the Bond Purchase



4923-6281-6609, v. 5                               4
Contract in the forms and with substantially the same content as attached hereto for and on behalf
of the City with final terms as may be established for the Series 2025 Bonds by the Authority and
with such alterations, changes or additions as may be necessary or as may be authorized herein.
When authorized by the Governing Board of the Authority, the City hereby approves and
authorizes the execution and delivery of the Bond Purchase Contract, the Lease, the Indenture, the
Security Documents and the Ground Lease, by the Authority in substantially the forms presented
to the Council at this meeting and attached hereto as exhibits for and on behalf of the Authority.

        Section 4.     The Council hereby authorizes the financing of the Series 2025 Project and
the delegation by the Authority, to certain officers of the Authority, the ability to set the final terms
of the Series 2025 Bonds within the parameters established by the Authority in the Authority
Resolution, which parameters are as follows: maximum aggregate principal amount shall not
exceed Eleven Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($11,500,000); the maximum interest rate
shall not exceed six and one half percent (6.50%) per annum; the maximum maturity shall not
exceed twenty-five (25) years from the dated date of the Series 2025 Bonds; and the maximum
discount from par at which the Series 2025 Bonds may be sold shall not exceed three percent
(3.00%).

        Section 5.     Should the Authority determine to have the Series 2025 Bonds publicly
sold, the Council hereby authorizes the distribution and use of the Preliminary Official Statement,
in the form attached hereto as Exhibit G, in the marketing of the Series 2025 Bonds and hereby
approves the distribution and use of the Official Statement in substantially the same form as the
Preliminary Official Statement.

        Section 6.      For the purpose of providing funds to (a) finance the Series 2025 Project,
(b) fund any required deposits to a debt service reserve fund and (c) pay costs associated with the
issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds and for such other purposes as may be authorized under the
Indenture, the City authorizes the Authority to issue the Series 2025 Bonds which shall be
designated the “Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah Lease Revenue Bonds,
Series 2025” (to be issued in one or more series and with such other series or title designation(s)
as may be determined by the Authority, provided that the terms of the Series 2025 Bonds shall not
exceed the parameters referenced in Section 4 herein). The Series 2025 Bonds shall be dated, shall
bear interest, and shall mature as set forth in the First Supplemental Indenture.

       Section 7.       The Authority is authorized to issue and sell the Series 2025 Bonds to the
Purchaser/Underwriter thereof pursuant to the terms of the Bond Purchase Contract in the
aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $11,500,000 and at the purchase price set forth therein
or pursuant to a public bidding process. The Series 2025 Bonds shall be dated as of their date of
delivery, shall bear interest, and mature as set forth in the First Supplemental Indenture.

        Section 8.    The form, terms, and provisions of the Series 2025 Bonds and the provisions
for the signatures, authentication, payment, registration, transfer, exchange, redemption, and
number shall be as set forth in the Indenture. The Series 2025 Bonds shall mature prior to the
expiration of the estimated useful life of the Series 2025 Project. The Chair/President of the
Authority, including any authorized official acting in the Chair/President’s place, is hereby
authorized to execute the Series 2025 Bonds, to place thereon the seal of the Authority and to
deliver the Series 2025 Bonds to the Purchaser/Underwriter. The Secretary-Treasurer of the


4923-6281-6609, v. 5                               5
Authority is authorized to attest to the signature of the Chair/President and affix the seal of the
Authority to the Series 2025 Bonds and to authenticate the Series 2025 Bonds. The signatures of
the Chair/President and of the Secretary-Treasurer may be by facsimile or manual execution.

        Section 9.     The appropriate officers of the City and the Authority are authorized to take
all actions necessary or reasonably required to carry out, give effect to and consummate the
transactions contemplated hereby and are authorized to take all actions necessary in conformity
with the Act and the Articles to finance the Series 2025 Project, and to lease the Series 2025 Project
pursuant to the Lease, including, without limitation, the execution and delivery of any closing and
other documents required to be delivered in connection with the Indenture and the sale and delivery
of the Series 2025 Bonds.
         Section 10. Upon their issuance, the Series 2025 Bonds will constitute special limited
obligations of the Authority payable solely from and to the extent of the sources set forth in the
Series 2025 Bonds, the Indenture and the Security Documents. No provision of this Resolution,
the Lease, the Ground Lease, the Indenture, the Series 2025 Bonds, the Bond Purchase Contract,
the Security Documents, nor any other instrument authorized hereby, shall be construed as creating
a general obligation of the Authority or of creating a general obligation of the City, the State of
Utah or any political subdivision of the State of Utah, nor as incurring or creating a charge upon
the general credit of the City or against its taxing powers. The City shall not be obligated to pay
out of its funds, revenues, or accounts, or to make any payment in respect of the Series 2025 Bonds,
except in connection with the payment of Base Rentals, Additional Rentals, and Purchase Option
Price pursuant to the Lease (as those terms are defined in the Lease), which are subject to annual
appropriation by the City in accordance with the provisions of the Lease. The Authority has no
taxing power.

        Section 11. The Mayor or Mayor pro tem is hereby authorized to make any alterations,
changes or additions in the Lease, the Ground Lease, and the Bond Purchase Contract herein
approved and authorized necessary to correct errors or omissions therein, to remove ambiguities
therefrom, or to conform the same to other provisions of such instruments, to the provisions of this
Resolution, or any resolution adopted by the City or the Authority, to the agreements with the
Purchaser/Underwriter or the provisions of the laws of the State of Utah or the United States, the
approval of all such alterations, changes, or additions to be conclusively established by the
execution thereof.

        Section 12. The appropriate officials of the Authority are authorized to make any
alterations, changes, or additions in the Lease, the Ground Lease, the Indenture, the Bond Purchase
Contract, and the Security Documents herein authorized and approved which may be necessary to
correct errors or omissions therein, to remove ambiguities therefrom, to conform the same to other
provisions of said instruments, to the provisions of this Resolution, or any resolution adopted by
the City or the Authority, to the agreements with the Purchaser/Underwriter, or the provisions of
the laws of the State of Utah or the United States, approval of all such alterations, changes, or
additions to be conclusively established by the execution thereof.

         Section 13. If any provisions of this resolution (including the exhibits attached hereto)
should be held invalid, the invalidity of such provisions shall not affect any of the other provisions
of this resolution or the exhibits.


4923-6281-6609, v. 5                             6
        Section 14. The City Recorder is hereby authorized to attest to all signatures and acts of
any proper official of the City, and, as necessary, to place the seal of the City on the Lease, the
Bond Purchase Contract and the Ground Lease. The Mayor and other proper officials of the City
and each of them, are hereby authorized to execute and deliver for and on behalf of the City any
and all additional certificates, documents, and other papers and to perform all other acts that they
may deem necessary or appropriate in order to implement and carry out the matters herein
authorized. Any action authorized to be taken by the Mayor of the City may, in his/her absence,
be taken by the Mayor pro tem.

        Section 15. The Secretary-Treasurer or other authorized officer of the Authority is
hereby authorized to attest to all signatures and acts of any proper official of the Authority, and,
as necessary, to place the seal of the Authority on the Lease, the Ground Lease, the Indenture, the
Security Documents, the Bond Purchase Contract, and any other documents authorized, necessary
or proper pursuant to this Resolution or any Resolution of the Authority. The appropriate officials
of the Authority, and each of them, are hereby authorized to execute and deliver for and on behalf
of the Authority any or all additional certificates, documents, and other papers to perform all other
acts they may deem necessary or appropriate in order to implement and carry out the matters
authorized in this resolution. Any action authorized to be taken by the Chair/President may, in
his/her absence, be taken by the Vice President of the Authority.

       Section 16. The appropriate officers of the City are authorized to take all action
necessary or reasonably required to carry out, give effect to and consummate the transactions
contemplated hereby.

         Section 17.   This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon adoption by the
City.

       Section 18. All bylaws, orders and resolutions of the City or parts thereof, inconsistent
herewith, are hereby repealed to the extent only of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be
construed as revising any bylaw, order, resolution, or ordinance or part thereof.




4923-6281-6609, v. 5                             7
      PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH THIS
September 18, 2025.


(SEAL)

                                   By:
                                            Mayor


ATTEST:



By:
                   City Recorder




4923-6281-6609, v. 5                 8
STATE OF UTAH                     )
                                  : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE               )

       I, Stephanie Carlson, the undersigned duly qualified and acting City Recorder of the City
of Holladay, Utah (the “City”), do hereby certify according to the records of the City Council (the
“Council”) in my official possession that the foregoing constitutes a true and correct copy of the
record of proceedings of the Council taken at a meeting of said City held on September 18, 2025,
commencing at the hour of 6:00 p.m. insofar as said proceedings relate to the consideration and
adoption of a resolution at said meeting (the “Resolution”) and that the Resolution is officially of
record in my possession. I further certify that the Resolution was deposited in my office on
September 18, 2025, has been recorded by me, and is a part of the permanent records of the City.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my official signature and affixed
the seal of the City this September 18, 2025.


(SEAL)

                                              By:
                                                              City Recorder




4923-6281-6609, v. 5                            9
                                             EXHIBIT A

                 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE WITH OPEN MEETING LAW

       I, Stephanie Carlson, the undersigned City Recorder of the City of Holladay, Utah (the
“City”), do hereby certify, according to the records of the City Council of the City (the “Council”)
in my official possession, and upon my own knowledge and belief, that in accordance with the
requirements of Section 52-4-202, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended, I gave not less than
twenty-four (24) hours public notice of the agenda, date, time and place of the September 18, 2025
public meeting held by the Council as follows:

                 (i)     By causing a Notice, in the form attached hereto as Schedule 1, to be posted
         at the City’s principal offices at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the convening of the
         meeting, said Notice having continuously remained so posted and available for public
         inspection until the completion of the meeting;

                 (ii)   By causing a copy of such Notice, in the form attached hereto as Schedule
         1, to be posted to the Utah Public Notice Website (http://pmn.utah.gov) at least twenty-
         four (24) hours prior to the convening of the meeting; and

                 (iii) By causing a copy of such Notice, in the form attached hereto as Schedule
         1, to be posted on the City’s official website at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the
         convening of the meeting.

        In addition, the Notice of 2025 Annual Meeting Schedule for the City Council (attached
hereto as Schedule 2) was given specifying the date, time and place of the regular meetings of the
City Council to be held during the year, by causing said Notice to be posted at least annually (a)
on the Utah Public Notice Website created under Section 63A-16-601, Utah Code Annotated 1953,
as amended, (b) on the City’s official website and (c) in a public location within the City that is
reasonably likely to be seen by residents of the City .

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my official signature this
September 18, 2025.



                                               By:
                                                                 City Recorder


(SEAL)




4923-6281-6609, v. 5                             A-1
                          SCHEDULE 1

                       NOTICE OF MEETING




4923-6281-6609, v. 5          A-2
                                  SCHEDULE 2

                       NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING SCHEDULE




4923-6281-6609, v. 5                  A-3
                       EXHIBIT B

                       INDENTURE




4923-6281-6609, v. 5      B-1
                             GENERAL INDENTURE OF TRUST


                                 Dated as of ________, 2025


                                           between


                              LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY
                            OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH


                                             and


                       ___________________________________________,
                                         as Trustee


                                   Local Building Authority
                                 of the City of Holladay, Utah
                                     Lease Revenue Bonds




4928-1127-9713, v. 2
                                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS

ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS ................................................................................................4

Section 1.1         Definitions....................................................................................................4
Section 1.2         Indenture to Constitute Contract. ...............................................................11
Section 1.3         Construction. ..............................................................................................12

ARTICLE II TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF BONDS; ADDITIONAL BONDS AND
REFUNDING BONDS ......................................................................................................13

Section 2.1         Authorization of Bonds. .............................................................................13
Section 2.2         Description of Bonds; Payment. ................................................................13
Section 2.3         Execution; Limited Obligation. .................................................................14
Section 2.4         Authentication and Delivery of Bonds. .....................................................15
Section 2.5         Form of Bonds. ..........................................................................................17
Section 2.6         Mutilated, Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Bonds. .............................................17
Section 2.7         Registration and Exchange of Bonds; Persons Treated as Owners. ..........17
Section 2.8         Designation of the Trustee as Bond Registrar and Paying Agent and
                    Designation of Any Additional Paying Agents. ........................................18
Section 2.9         Cancellation. ..............................................................................................19
Section 2.10        Nonpresentation of Bonds..........................................................................19
Section 2.11        Initial Bonds. ..............................................................................................19
Section 2.12        Temporary Bonds.......................................................................................19
Section 2.13        Issuance of Refunding Bonds. ...................................................................20
Section 2.14        Additional Bonds. ......................................................................................22

ARTICLE III REDEMPTION PROVISIONS ..................................................................23

Section 3.1         Redemption. ...............................................................................................23
Section 3.2         Extraordinary Redemption. ........................................................................23
Section 3.3         Other Redemption Provisions. ...................................................................24
Section 3.4         Notice of Redemption. ...............................................................................24
Section 3.5         Redemption Payments. ..............................................................................26
Section 3.6         Cancellation. ..............................................................................................26
Section 3.7         Partial Redemption of Bonds. ....................................................................26

ARTICLE IV GENERAL COVENANTS.........................................................................27

Section 4.1         Payment of Principal and Premium, if any, and Interest. ..........................27
Section 4.2         Performance of Covenants; Due Authority................................................27
Section 4.3         Ownership; Instruments of Further Assurance. .........................................27
Section 4.4         Perfection of Security Interest. ..................................................................28
Section 4.5         Inspection of Project Books. ......................................................................28
Section 4.6         List of Bondholders....................................................................................28
Section 4.7         Rights Under Master Lease. .......................................................................28
Section 4.8         Payment of Taxes, Charges, Insurance. etc. ..............................................28
Section 4.9         Maintenance and Repair. ...........................................................................29


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                                                 i
Section 4.10        Warranty. ...................................................................................................29
Section 4.11        Further Assurances.....................................................................................29
Section 4.12        Actions with Respect to Trust Estate. ........................................................29
Section 4.13        Power of Attorney in Respect of the Master Lease. ..................................30

ARTICLE V REVENUES AND FUNDS .........................................................................30

Section 5.1         Source of Payment of Bonds......................................................................30
Section 5.2         Creation of Bond Fund...............................................................................31
Section 5.3         Creation of Sinking Fund Account. ...........................................................31
Section 5.4         Creation of Debt Service Reserve Fund.....................................................31
Section 5.5         Creation of Construction Fund...................................................................31
Section 5.6         Creation of Rebate Fund. ...........................................................................31
Section 5.7         Creation of Funds. ......................................................................................31
Section 5.8         Use of Bond Fund. .....................................................................................31
Section 5.9         Use of Sinking Fund Account. ...................................................................32
Section 5.10        Use of Debt Service Reserve Fund. ...........................................................32
Section 5.11        Use of Construction Fund; Disbursements. ...............................................34
Section 5.12        Completion of Project. ...............................................................................34
Section 5.13        Rebate Fund and Arbitrage Rebate. ...........................................................34
Section 5.14        Moneys to be Held in Trust. ......................................................................36
Section 5.15        Repayment to the City from Bond Fund or Debt Service Reserve Fund...36
Section 5.16        Custody of Separate Trust Fund. ...............................................................36
Section 5.17        Cost of Issuance Account...........................................................................36
Section 5.18        Creation of Reserve Instrument Fund. .......................................................37
Section 5.19        Use of Reserve Instrument Fund................................................................37

ARTICLE VI INVESTMENT OF MONEYS ...................................................................37

Section 6.1         Trustee to Invest Funds. .............................................................................37
Section 6.2         Method of Valuation and Frequency of Valuation. ...................................37

ARTICLE VII RIGHTS OF THE CITY ...........................................................................37

Section 7.1         Subordination of Master Lease to Indenture; Certain Rights to City. .......37
Section 7.2         Granting of Rights in and to the Projects. ..................................................38
Section 7.3         Release of Equipment Forming a Part of the Projects. ..............................38
Section 7.4         Release of Portions of Project Upon Payment of Related Series of Bonds.
                       38

ARTICLE VIII DISCHARGE OF LIEN...........................................................................38

ARTICLE IX DEFAULT PROVISIONS AND REMEDIES OF THE TRUSTEE AND
BONDHOLDERS ..............................................................................................................40

Section 9.1         Events of Default. ......................................................................................40
Section 9.2         Acceleration, Limitation on Remedies. .....................................................41



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                                                ii
Section 9.3        Surrender of Possession of Projects; Rights and Duties of Trustee in
                   Possession. .................................................................................................42
Section 9.4        Other Remedies; Rights of Bondholders. ..................................................43
Section 9.5        Right of Bondholders to Direct Proceedings. ............................................44
Section 9.6        Appointment of Receivers. ........................................................................44
Section 9.7        Waiver. .......................................................................................................44
Section 9.8        Application of Moneys. .............................................................................45
Section 9.9        Remedies Vested in the Trustee. ................................................................46
Section 9.10       Rights and Remedies of Bondholders. .......................................................47
Section 9.11       Termination of Proceedings. ......................................................................47
Section 9.12       Waivers of Events of Default.....................................................................47
Section 9.13       Notice of Events of Default under Section 9.l(c); Opportunity of the
                   Authority and the City to Cure Such Events of Default. ...........................48
Section 9.14       Cooperation of Authority. ..........................................................................48
Section 9.15       Limitation on Remedies and Acceleration During Acquisition and
                   Construction of Portions of Projects. .........................................................48

ARTICLE X THE TRUSTEE ...........................................................................................49

Section 10.1 Acceptance of Trusts..................................................................................49
Section 10.2 Fees, Charges and Expenses of the Trustee. ..............................................52
Section 10.3 Notice to Bondholders. ..............................................................................52
Section 10.4 Intervention by the Trustee. .......................................................................53
Section 10.5 Successor Trustee.......................................................................................53
Section 10.6 Resignation by the Trustee.........................................................................53
Section 10.7 Removal of the Trustee. .............................................................................53
Section 10.8 Appointment of Successor Trustee. ...........................................................53
Section 10.9 Concerning Any Successor Trustee. ..........................................................54
Section 10.10 Right of the Trustee to Pay Taxes and Other Charges. ..............................54
Section 10.11 Appointment of Co-Trustee. ......................................................................54
Section 10.12 Trustee Not Responsible for Actions of Authority. ...................................55
Section 10.13 Trustee’s Right to Own and Deal in Bonds. ..............................................55
Section 10.14 Requirements as to Trustee’s Records. ......................................................55
Section 10.15 Trustee’s Own Funds. ................................................................................56
Section 10.16 Direct Payment Authorization. ..................................................................56

ARTICLE XI SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES ...........................................................57

Section 11.1       Supplemental Indentures Not Requiring Consent of Bondholders. ...........57
Section 11.2       Supplemental Indentures Requiring Consent of Bondholders. ..................58

ARTICLE XII AMENDMENT OF MASTER LEASE ....................................................60

Section 12.1       Amendments, etc., to Master Lease Not Requiring Consent of Bondholders.
                       60
Section 12.2       Amendments, etc., to the Master Lease Requiring Consent of Holders of
                   the Bonds. ..................................................................................................60


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                                                iii
ARTICLE XIII MISCELLANEOUS ................................................................................60

Section 13.1      Consents. etc. of Bondholders. ..................................................................60
Section 13.2      Limitation of Rights. ..................................................................................61
Section 13.3      Severability. ...............................................................................................61
Section 13.4      Notices. ......................................................................................................61
Section 13.5      Payments Due on Days other than Business Days.....................................61
Section 13.6      Counterparts. ..............................................................................................62
Section 13.7      Applicable Provisions of Law. ...................................................................62




4928-1127-9713, v. 2                                               iv
                              GENERAL INDENTURE OF TRUST

        THIS GENERAL INDENTURE OF TRUST dated as of [__________], 2025 (the
“General Indenture”), between the LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
HOLLADAY, UTAH, a nonprofit corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good
standing under the laws of the State of Utah (the “Authority”), and [__________], a national
banking association organized under the laws of the United States with its principal office located
in Salt Lake City, Utah, as trustee (the “Trustee”):

                                       W I T N E S S E T H:

         WHEREAS, the City Council (the “Council”) of the City of Holladay, Utah (the “City”)
has organized the Authority solely for the purpose of (a) accomplishing the public purposes for
which the City exists by acquiring, constructing, improving or extending any improvements,
facilities or properties (whether real or personal) and appurtenances to them which the City is
authorized or permitted by law to acquire, including, but not limited to, public buildings or other
structures of every nature or any joint or partial interest in the same, which improvements,
facilities, properties and appurtenances need not be situated within the boundaries of the City
(collectively, the “Projects”) and (b) financing or refinancing the costs of such Projects on behalf
of the City in accordance with the procedures and subject to the limitations of the Local Building
Authority Act, Title 17D, Chapter 2, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, the Local
Government Bonding Act, Title 11, Chapter 14, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, and the
Utah Refunding Bond Act, Title 11, Chapter 27, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended
(collectively, the “Act”), including, but not limited to, the costs of refunding and retiring existing
obligations, funding debt service reserves, and paying issuance expenses to be incurred in
connection with the issuance and sale of the Bonds herein authorized and defined; and

       WHEREAS, the Act provides that the Authority may issue and sell its Bonds for the
purposes described above; and

       WHEREAS, the Bonds shall be secured by a pledge and assignment of certain base rentals
(the “Base Rentals”) received by the Authority under that certain Master Lease Agreement dated
as of even date herewith between the Authority, as lessor, and the City, as lessee (the “Master
Lease”) and a purchase option price (the “Purchase Option Price”), if paid by the City, with respect
to a Project under the Master Lease and will be further secured by the Security Documents (as
defined herein); and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the Master Lease, the Authority has agreed to acquire, construct,
improve and equip or to refinance one or more Projects and to lease the same to the City upon the
terms and conditions set forth in the Master Lease; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of a resolution of the City adopted on ________,
2025 (the “City Resolution”), the City has authorized and approved the execution of the Master
Lease and has authorized and approved certain actions to be taken by the Authority in connection
with the financing or refinancing of the acquisition, construction, improvement and equipping (as
applicable) of a Project or Projects, including, among other things, the execution, delivery and
performance of this General Indenture and the issuance of the Bonds hereunder; and


4928-1127-9713, v. 2
       WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of a resolution of the Authority adopted on
[__________], 2025 (the “Authority Resolution”), the governing board of the Authority (the
“Governing Board”) has authorized, approved and directed the execution of the Master Lease and
this General Indenture and has authorized and approved certain actions to be taken by the Authority
in connection with the financing or refinancing of the acquisition, construction, improvement and
equipping (as applicable) of a Project or Projects, including the issuance of the Bonds hereunder;
and

        WHEREAS, the Authority has determined that the Bonds shall be secured by this Indenture
(as hereinafter defined) and as provided herein and has ascertained and determined that the
provisions herein contained for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the registered
owners of such Bonds are reasonable, proper and in accordance with law, and that this Indenture
is necessary to the performance of its duties and the execution of its powers under law, and does
deem and determine all of the provisions herein contained to be reasonable and proper for the
security of the registered owners of the Bonds; and

       WHEREAS, all acts and things required by law and by the articles of incorporation and
bylaws of the Authority necessary to make this Indenture a valid and binding trust instrument for
the security of all Bonds duly issued hereunder have been done and performed and the execution
and delivery of this Indenture have been in all respects duly authorized; and

        WHEREAS, the Trustee has accepted the trust created and established by this Indenture
and in evidence thereof has joined in the execution hereof;

       NOW, THEREFORE, THIS GENERAL INDENTURE OF TRUST WITNESSETH:

                                     GRANTING CLAUSES

        That the Authority, in consideration of the premises and the acceptance of the Trustee of
the trusts hereby created and of the purchase and acceptance of the Bonds by the Bondholders
thereof, and of the sum of One Dollar, lawful money of the United States of America, to it duly
paid by the Trustee at or before the execution and delivery of these presents, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, in order to secure the
payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds according to their tenor
and effect and to secure the performance and observance by the Authority of all the covenants
expressed or implied herein and in the Bonds, does hereby grant, bargain, sell, convey, assign and
pledge, and does hereby grant a security interest in, the following properties, rights, interests and
privileges (collectively, the “Trust Estate”) to the Trustee, and its successors in trust and assigns
forever, for the securing of the performance of the obligations of the Authority hereinafter set
forth:

                                  GRANTING CLAUSE FIRST

       The Authority’s interest in the Projects, and any other interest, easements, licenses, rights
and interests in real property hereafter acquired by the Authority for use in connection with the
Projects, together with all additions thereto and substitutions thereof, subject to the Permitted
Encumbrances;



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             2
                                GRANTING CLAUSE SECOND

        The improvements made as part or all of the Projects and all substitutions or replacements
thereof and in general all property acquired by the Authority with the proceeds of the Bonds issued
under and secured by this Indenture and substitutions and replacements thereof and any other
property which under the terms of the Master Lease is to become the property of the Authority or
be subjected to the lien of this Indenture or the Security Documents, subject to Permitted
Encumbrances;

                                  GRANTING CLAUSE THIRD

        The equipment constituting a part of the Projects and any other interest in personal property
hereafter acquired by the Authority for use in connection with the Projects, together with all
additions thereto and replacements, renewals and substitutions therefor;

                                GRANTING CLAUSE FOURTH

        The Master Lease, including all extensions and renewals of the term thereof, if any, the
present and continuing right to make claim for, collect, receive and receipt for any of the Base
Rentals, Additional Rentals, Purchase Option Price, if paid by the City, as applicable, with respect
to a Project or Projects, sums, amounts, income, revenues, issues and profits and any other sums
of money payable or receivable under the Master Lease with respect to the Projects for deposit
with the Trustee under this Indenture (except for amounts payable under Sections 6.3(d), 6.3(j),
13.3 and 14.5 thereof), to bring actions and proceedings thereunder or for the enforcement thereof,
and to do any and all things which the Authority under the Master Lease or any lessor under the
Master Lease is or may become entitled to;

                                  GRANTING CLAUSE FIFTH

       All moneys and securities from time to time held by the Trustee under the terms of this
Indenture (except for moneys deposited with or paid to the Trustee for the payment of Bonds not
then deemed Outstanding under the Indenture and the Rebate Fund) and any and all other real or
personal property of every name and nature from time to time hereafter by delivery or by writing
of any kind conveyed, mortgaged, pledged, assigned or transferred, as and for additional security
hereunder by the Authority or by anyone on its behalf, or with its written consent, to the Trustee
which is hereby authorized to receive any and all such property at any and all times and to hold
and apply the same subject to the terms thereof;

        TO HAVE AND TO HOLD all and singular the Trust Estate, whether now owned or
hereafter acquired, unto Trustee and its respective successors (for the benefit of the Bondholders)
in said Trust and assigns forever;

        IN TRUST NEVERTHELESS, upon the terms, conditions and trusts herein set forth for
the equal and proportionate benefit, security and protection of all present and future Bondholders
of the Bonds, from time to time, issued under and secured by this Indenture without privilege,
priority or distinction as to the lien or otherwise of any of the Bonds over any of the other Bonds,
except as expressly provided therein, and for all Security Instrument Issuers and second, for the
equal and proportionate benefit, security and protection of all Reserve Instrument Providers;


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             3
         PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if the Authority, its successors or assigns shall well and
truly pay, or cause to be paid, the principal of and premium (including any make-whole additional
payments), if any, and interest on the Bonds due or to become due thereon, at the times and in the
manner mentioned in the Bonds, the Security Instrument Repayment Obligations and all Reserve
Instrument Repayment Obligations according to the true intent and meaning thereof, and shall
cause the payments to be made on the Bonds as required under Article IV hereof, or shall provide,
as permitted hereby, for the payment thereof by depositing with the Trustee the entire amount due
or to become due thereon (as provided in Article VIII hereof), and shall well and truly cause to be
kept, performed and observed all of its covenants and conditions pursuant to the terms of this
Indenture, and shall pay or cause to be paid to the Trustee all sums of money due or to become due
to it in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof, then upon the final payment thereof this
Indenture and the rights hereby granted shall cease, terminate and be void; otherwise this Indenture
shall be and remain in full force and effect.

        THIS GENERAL INDENTURE OF TRUST FURTHER WITNESSETH, and it is
expressly declared, that all Bonds issued and secured hereunder are to be issued, authenticated and
delivered and all said property, rights and interests, including, without limitation, the Base Rentals,
Additional Rentals, Purchase Option Price, if paid by the City, with respect to a Project or Projects
and other amounts hereby assigned and pledged are to be dealt with and disposed of under, upon
and subject to the terms, conditions, stipulations, covenants, agreements, trusts, uses and purposes
as herein expressed, and the Authority has agreed and covenanted, and does hereby agree and
covenant with Trustee and with the respective Bondholders, Security Instrument Issuers and
Reserve Instrument Providers as follows (subject, however, to the provisions of Section 2.3
hereof):

                                             ARTICLE I

                                           DEFINITIONS

        Section 1.1 Definitions. All terms defined in Article I of the Master Lease shall have
the same meaning in the Indenture unless otherwise indicated. In addition, unless the context
otherwise requires, the terms defined in the recitals to this General Indenture set forth above and
in this Article I shall, for all purposes of the Indenture and the Master Lease, have the meaning
herein specified.

       “Additional Bonds” means all Bonds (other than the Initial Bonds) issued under the
Indenture pursuant to Section 2.14 hereof.

        “Authority Representative” means the Chair/President and Secretary-Treasurer of the
Authority, and any other person or persons at any time designated to act on behalf of the Authority
for purposes of performing any act on behalf of the Authority with respect to a Project by a written
certificate furnished to the City and the Trustee containing the specimen signature of such person
or persons and signed on behalf of the Authority by any duly authorized officer of the Authority.
Such certificate may designate an alternate or alternates. The Authority Representative may be an
officer or employee of the Authority or the City.




4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              4
       “Base Rentals” means that portion of the rentals payable under the Master Lease which is
pledged to the payment of debt service on the Bonds and to the replenishment of the Debt Service
Reserve Fund under the Indenture.

         “Bond Documents” means the Master Lease, the Security Documents and the Indenture.

        “Bond Fund” means Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, Bond Fund
established under Section 5.2 hereof.

        “Bond Registrar” means the Trustee (or other party designated as Registrar by
Supplemental Indenture), appointed as the initial registrar for the Bonds pursuant to Section 2.8
hereof, and any additional or successor registrar appointed pursuant hereto.

       “Bondholder,” “Holder,” “Owner” or “Registered Owner” means the person or persons in
whose name or names a Bond shall be registered on the books of the Bond Registrar kept for that
purpose in accordance with provisions of the Indenture.

       “Bonds” means (i) the Initial Bonds, (ii) any Refunding Bonds issued pursuant to Section
2.13 hereof and (iii) any Additional Bonds issued pursuant to Section 2.14 hereof.

       “Chair/President” means the Chair/President (including any acting Chair/President) of the
Authority.

        “City Representative” means the Mayor, City Manager and City Recorder of the City and
any other person at any time designated to act on behalf of the City for purposes of performing
any act with respect to a Project by a written certificate furnished to the Authority and the Trustee
containing the specimen signature of such person and signed on behalf of the City or any duly
authorized officer thereof. Such certificate may designate an alternate or alternates. The City
Representative may be an officer or employee of the Authority or the City.

         “Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

       “Construction Fund” means Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah,
Construction Fund established under Section 5.5 hereof.

        “Cross-over Date” means with respect to Cross-over Refunding Bonds the date on which
the Principal portion of the related Cross-over Refunded Bonds is to be paid or redeemed from the
proceeds of such Cross-over Refunding Bonds.

      “Cross-over Refunded Bonds” means Bonds or other obligations refunded by Cross-over
Refunding Bonds.

       “Cross-over Refunding Bonds” means Bonds issued for the purpose of refunding Bonds or
other obligations if the proceeds of such Cross-over Refunding Bonds are irrevocably deposited in
escrow in satisfaction of the requirements of Section 11-27-3, Utah Code, to secure the payment
on an applicable redemption date or maturity date of the Cross-over Refunded Bonds (subject to
possible use to pay Principal of the Cross-over Refunding Bonds under certain circumstances) and



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             5
the earnings on such escrow deposit are required to be applied to pay interest on the Cross-over
Refunding Bonds until the Cross-over Date.

       “Debt Service Reserve Fund” means the Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay,
Utah, Debt Service Reserve Fund established under Section 5.4 hereof for the purpose of securing
payment of Bonds issued under this Indenture.

        “Debt Service Reserve Requirement” means with respect to each Series of Bonds issued
pursuant to this Indenture, unless otherwise provided in the related Supplemental Indenture, an
amount equal to the least of (i) 10% of the proceeds of such Series of Bonds determined on the
basis of original principal amount (unless original issue premium or original issue discount exceeds
2% of original principal, then determined on the basis of initial purchase price to the public), (ii)
the maximum annual debt service during any year for such Series of Bonds, and (iii) 125% of the
average annual debt service for such Series of Bonds; provided, however, that in the event any
Series of Refunding Bonds is issued to refund only a portion and not all of the then Outstanding
Bonds of any Series issued pursuant to this Indenture (the “Prior Bonds”), then the portion of such
Series of Prior Bonds that remain Outstanding immediately after the issuance of such Refunding
Bonds and the portion of such Refunding Bonds that is allocable to the refunding of such Series
of Prior Bonds may be combined and treated as a single Series for purpose of determining the Debt
Service Reserve Requirement relating to such combined Series and the resulting requirement shall
be allocated among the two Series pro rata based upon the total principal amount remaining
Outstanding for each Series. Each account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund shall only be used
with respect to the related Series of Bonds.

        “Direct Obligations” means direct noncallable obligations of (including obligations issued
or held in book-entry form on the books of) the Department of the Treasury of the United States
of America, obligations unconditionally guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States
of America and evidences of ownership interests in such direct or unconditionally guaranteed
obligations.

        “Direct Payments” means the interest subsidy payments received by the Authority from
the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to Section 6431 and 1400U-2 of the Code or other similar
programs (with respect to Bonds issued hereunder).

          “Event of Default” means any occurrence or event specified in and defined by Section 9.1
hereof.

       “General Indenture” means this General Indenture of Trust, by and between the Authority
and the Trustee.

       “Indenture” means this General Indenture and any Supplemental Indentures entered into in
compliance with the provisions of Article XI.

          “Initial Bonds” means the first Series of Bonds issued under the Indenture.

          “Interest Payment Date” means the stated payment date of an installment of interest on the
Bonds.



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              6
         “Investment Obligations” means any of the following securities:

                  (i)   Direct Obligations;

                (ii)     Obligations of any of the following federal agencies which obligations
         represent full faith and credit obligations of the United States of America: the Export-
         Import Bank of the United States; the Government National Mortgage Association; the
         Federal Financing Bank; the Farmer’s Home Administration; the Federal Housing
         Administration; the Maritime Administration: General Services Administration, Small
         Business Administration; or the Department of Housing and Urban Development (PHA’s);

                 (iii) Money market funds rated at the time of purchase “AAAm” or “AAAm-G”
         or better by S&P, including money market funds from which the Trustee or its affiliates
         receive fees for investment, advisory or other services to the fund;

                (iv)     Commercial paper which is rated at the time of purchase in the single
         highest classification, P-1 by Moody’s or A-1+ by S&P, and which matures not more than
         270 days after the date of purchase;

                (v)     Bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness rated at the time of
         purchase “AAA” by S&P and “Aaa” by Moody’s issued by the Federal National Mortgage
         Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation with remaining maturities
         not exceeding three years;

                 (vi)    U.S. dollar denominated deposit accounts, federal funds and banker’s
         acceptances with domestic commercial banks which have a rating on their short term
         certificates of deposit on the date of purchase of “A-1” or “A-1+” by S&P and “P-1” by
         Moody’s and maturing no more than 360 days after the date of purchase (ratings on holding
         companies are not considered as the rating of the bank);

                 (vii) The fund held by the Treasurer for the State of Utah and commonly known
         as the Utah State Public Treasurer’s Investment Fund; and

                 (viii) Any investments or securities permitted for investment of public funds
         under the State Money Management Act of 1974, Title 51, Chapter 7, Utah Code Annotated
         1953, as amended.

        “Master Lease” means the Master Lease Agreement dated as of even date herewith by and
between the Authority, as lessor and the City, as lessee and any amendments and supplements
thereto entered into in accordance with Article XII hereof.

       “Moody’s” means Moody’s Investors Service, its successors and assigns, and, if such
corporation shall no longer perform the functions of a securities rating agency, “Moody’s” shall
be deemed to refer to any other nationally recognized securities rating agency designated by the
Authority.




4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             7
        “Outstanding” or “Bonds Outstanding” means all Bonds which have been authenticated,
registered and delivered by the Trustee under the Indenture, except:

                (a)    Bonds delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, whether after purchase in
         the open market or because of payment at, or redemption prior to, maturity;

                 (b)    Bonds in lieu of which others have been authenticated under Sections 2.6,
         2.7, and 2.12 hereof; and

                  (c)   Bonds deemed paid under Article VIII of this General Indenture.

        “Paying Agent” means the Trustee, appointed as the initial paying agent for the Bonds
pursuant to Section 2.8 hereof, and any additional or successor paying agent appointed pursuant
hereto.

       “Project” or “Projects” means collectively each Project identified in a Supplemental
Indenture to be financed or refinanced with a Series of Bonds issued under the Indenture.

        “Rebatable Arbitrage” shall mean with respect to any Series of Bonds the amount
(determinable as of each Rebate Calculation Date) of rebatable arbitrage payable to the United
States at the times and in the amounts specified in Section 148(f)(3) of the Code and Section 1.148-
3 of the Regulations.

        “Rebate Calculation Date” means, with respect to each Series of Tax-Exempt Bonds, the
Interest Payment Date next preceding the fifth anniversary of the issue date of such Series of
Bonds, each fifth anniversary of the initial Rebate Calculation Date for such Series of Bonds, and
the date of retirement of the last Bond of such Series.

        “Rebate Fund” means Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, Rebate Fund
established by Section 5.6 hereof

       “Recovery Zone Bonds” means interest subsidy bonds issuable by the Authority under
Sections 1400U-2 and 6431 of the Code and a “qualified bond” under Section 1400U-2(a) of the
Code or such other tax credit bonds of substantially similar nature which may be hereafter
authorized.

       “Refunding Bonds” means all Bonds (other than the Initial Bonds) issued pursuant to
Section 2.13 hereof.

        “Regular Record Date” means the fifteenth day (whether or not a Business Day, as this
term is defined in the Master Lease) next preceding each Interest Payment Date.

       “Regulations” and all references thereto shall mean and include applicable final, proposed
and temporary United States Treasury Regulations, promulgated with respect to Sections 103 and
141 through 150 of the Code, including all amendments thereto made hereafter.

       “Required Rebate Deposit” means, with respect to any Series of Bonds an amount
determinable as of each Rebate Calculation Date, which when added to amounts then on deposit


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             8
in the Rebate Fund with respect to such Series of Bonds, if any, equals the aggregate amount of
Rebatable Arbitrage for such Series of Bonds less the amount of Rebatable Arbitrage theretofore
paid to the United States with respect to such Series of Bonds, if any.

        “Reserve Instrument” means a device or instrument issued by a Reserve Instrument
Provider to satisfy all or any portion of the Debt Service Reserve Requirement. The term “Reserve
Instrument” includes, by way of example and not of limitation, letters of credit, bond insurance
policies, surety bonds, standby bond purchase agreements, lines of credit and other devices.

       “Reserve Instrument Agreement” means any agreement entered into by the Authority and
a Reserve Instrument Provider pursuant to a Supplemental Indenture and providing for the issuance
by such Reserve Instrument Provider of a Reserve Instrument.

       “Reserve Instrument Costs” means all fees, premiums, expenses and similar costs, other
than Reserve Instrument Repayment Obligations, required to be paid to a Reserve Instrument
Provider pursuant to a Reserve Instrument Agreement.

       “Reserve Instrument Coverage” means, as of any date of calculation, the aggregate amount
available to be paid to the Trustee pursuant hereto under all Reserve Instruments.

       “Reserve Instrument Fund” means the Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay,
Utah Reserve Instrument Fund established in Section 5.18 of hereof to be held by the Trustee and
administered pursuant to Section 5.19 hereof.

        “Reserve Instrument Limit” means, as of any date of calculation and with respect to any
Reserve Instrument, the maximum aggregate amount available to be paid under such Reserve
Instrument into an account in the Debt Service Reserve Fund assuming for purposes of such
calculation that the amount initially available under each Reserve Instrument has not been reduced
or that the amount initially available under each Reserve Instrument has only been reduced as a
result of the reduction of the Debt Service Reserve Requirement.

        “Reserve Instrument Provider” means any bank, savings and loan association, savings
bank, thrift institution, credit union, insurance company, surety company or other institution
issuing a Reserve Instrument.

        “Reserve Instrument Repayment Obligations” means, as of any date of calculation and with
respect to any Reserve Instrument Agreement, those outstanding amounts payable by the Authority
under such Reserve Instrument Agreement to repay the Reserve Instrument Provider for payments
previously made by it pursuant to a Reserve Instrument. There shall not be included in the
calculation of Reserve Instrument Repayment Obligations any Reserve Instrument Costs.

       “S&P” means S&P Global Ratings, its successors and assigns, and, if such entity shall no
longer perform the functions of a securities rating agency, “S&P” shall be deemed to refer to any
other nationally recognized securities rating agency designated by the Authority.

       “Secretary-Treasurer” means the Secretary-Treasurer (including any deputy or acting
Secretary-Treasurer) of the Authority.



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                            9
      “Security Documents” means collectively the security documents described in each
Supplemental Indenture.

        “Security Instrument” means an instrument or other device issued by a Security Instrument
Issuer to pay, or to provide security or liquidity for, a Series of Bonds. The term “Security
Instrument” includes, by way of example and not of limitation, letters of credit, bond insurance
policies, standby bond purchase agreements, lines of credit and other security instruments and
credit enhancement or liquidity devices (but does not include a Reserve Instrument); provided,
however, that no such device or instrument shall be a “Security Instrument” for purposes of this
Indenture unless specifically so designated in a Supplemental Indenture authorizing the use of such
device or instrument.

        “Security Instrument Agreement” means any agreement entered into by the Authority and
a Security Instrument Issuer pursuant to a Supplemental Indenture (including the applicable
portions of a Supplemental Indenture) providing for the issuance by such Security Instrument
Issuer of a Security Instrument.

        “Security Instrument Costs” means, with respect to any Security Instrument, all fees,
premiums, expenses and similar costs, other than Security Instrument Repayment Obligations,
required to be paid to a Security Instrument Issuer pursuant to a Security Instrument Agreement
or the Supplemental Indenture authorizing the use of such Security Instrument. Such Security
Instrument Agreement or Supplemental Indenture shall specify any fees, premiums, expenses, and
costs constituting Security Instrument Costs.

      “Security Instrument Issuer” means any bank or other financial institution, insurance
company, Surety Company or other institution issuing a Security Instrument.

        “Security Instrument Repayment Obligations” means, as of any date of calculation and
with respect to any Security Instrument Agreement, any outstanding amounts payable by the
Authority under the Security Instrument Agreement or the Supplemental Indenture authorizing the
use of such Security Instrument to repay the Security Instrument Issuer for payments previously
or concurrently made by the Security Instrument Issuer pursuant to a Security Instrument. There
shall not be included in the calculation of the amount of Security Instrument Repayment
Obligations any Security Instrument Costs.

         “Serial Bonds” means those Bonds other than Term Bonds.

        “Series” means all of the Bonds authenticated and delivered on original issuance and
identified pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Bonds as a separate Series of
Bonds, and any Bonds thereafter authenticated and delivered in lieu thereof or in substitution
therefor.

       “Sinking Fund Account” means Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah,
Sinking Fund Account of the Bond Fund established by Section 5.3 hereof.

        “Sinking Fund Installment” means the amount of money which is required to be deposited
into the Sinking Fund Account in each year as specified in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                            10
Term Bonds for the retirement of such Term Bonds (whether at maturity or by redemption), and
including the redemption premium, if any.

        “Special Record Date” means such date as may be fixed for the payment of defaulted
interest on the Bonds in accordance with this General Indenture.

          “State” means the State of Utah.

       “Supplemental Indenture” means any indenture between the Authority and the Trustee
entered into pursuant to and in compliance with the provisions of Article XI hereof.

       “Tax Credit Bonds” means the interest subsidy bonds issuable by the Authority under
Sections 54AA and 6431 of the Code and a “qualified bond” under Section 54AA(g)(2) of the
Code or such other tax credit bonds of substantially similar nature which may be hereafter
authorized.

        “Tax-Exempt Bonds” means Bonds the interest on which is intended to be excludable from
gross income for federal income tax purposes.

      “Term Bonds” means the Bonds which shall be subject to retirement by operation of
mandatory sinking fund payments or redemptions from the Sinking Fund Account.

          “Trust Estate” means the property conveyed to the Trustee pursuant to the Granting Clauses
hereof.

       “Trustee” means ___________________________________________, a national
banking association and its successors and any association resulting from or surviving any
consolidation or merger to which it or its successors may be a party and any successor trustee at
the time serving as successor trustee under the Indenture.

        Section 1.2 Indenture to Constitute Contract. In consideration of the purchase and
acceptance from time to time of any and all of the Bonds authorized to be issued hereunder by the
Registered Owners thereof, and the issuance from time to time of any and all Reserve Instruments
by Reserve Instrument Providers and all Security Instruments by Security Instrument Issuers
pursuant hereto, this General Indenture shall be deemed to be and shall constitute a contract
between the Authority and the Owners from time to time of the Bonds; the Security Instrument
Issuers and the Reserve Instrument Providers, and the pledge made in this General Indenture and
the covenants and agreements herein set forth to be performed by or on behalf of the Authority
shall be for FIRST, the equal benefit, protection and security of the Owners of any and all of the
Bonds all of which, regardless of the time or times of their authentication and delivery or maturity,
shall be of equal rank without preference, priority or distinction of any of the Bonds over any other
thereof, except as expressly provided in or permitted by this General Indenture, and SECOND, for
the equal benefit, protection and security of the Reserve Instrument Providers of any and all of the
Reserve Instruments which, regardless of the time or times of their issuance, delivery or
termination, shall be of equal rank without preference, priority or distinction of any Reserve
Instrument over any other thereof.




4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              11
       Section 1.3 Construction. This General Indenture, except where the context by clear
implication herein otherwise requires, shall be construed as follows:

                 (a)     The terms “hereby,” “hereof,” “herein,” “hereto,” “hereunder,” and any
         similar terms used in this General Indenture shall refer to this General Indenture in its
         entirety unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

                (b)     Words in the singular number include the plural, and words in the plural
         include the singular.

                (c)    Words in the masculine gender include the feminine and the neuter, and
         when the sense so indicates, words of the neuter gender refer to any gender.

                (d)     Articles, sections, subsections, paragraphs and subparagraphs mentioned by
         number, letter, or otherwise, correspond to the respective articles, sections, subsections,
         paragraphs and subparagraphs hereof so numbered or otherwise so designated.

                 (e)    The titles or leadlines applied to articles, sections and subsections herein are
         inserted only as a matter of convenience and ease in reference and in no way define, limit
         or describe the scope or intent of any provisions of this General Indenture.




4928-1127-9713, v. 2                               12
                                             ARTICLE II

                          TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF BONDS;
                       ADDITIONAL BONDS AND REFUNDING BONDS

        Section 2.1 Authorization of Bonds. There is hereby created for issuance hereunder an
issue of Bonds which may, if and when authorized by Supplemental Indenture, be issued in one or
more separate Series. Each Series of Bonds shall be authorized by a Supplemental Indenture,
which shall state the purpose or purposes for which each such Series of Bonds is being issued. The
aggregate principal amount of Bonds which may be issued shall not be limited except as provided
herein or as may be limited by law provided that the aggregate principal amount of Bonds of each
such Series shall not exceed the amount specified in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing each
such Series of Bonds.

         Section 2.2    Description of Bonds; Payment.

                 (a)    The Bonds of each Series issued under the provisions hereof may be issued
         only as registered bonds. Unless otherwise specified in the Supplemental Indenture
         authorizing such Series of Bonds, Bonds of each Series shall be in the denomination of
         Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) each or any integral multiple thereof, shall be numbered
         consecutively from R-1 upwards and if applicable shall bear interest payable as specified
         in each Supplemental Indenture.

                 (b)    The Bonds of each Series issued hereunder shall be dated, shall bear interest
         calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months (unless
         otherwise specified by Supplemental Indenture) at a rate or rates not exceeding the
         maximum rate permitted by law on the date of initial issuance of Bonds of such Series, and
         be payable on the days, shall be stated to mature on the days and in the years and shall be
         subject to redemption prior to their respective maturities, all as set forth in the
         Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Series of Bonds. The Bonds of each Series shall
         be designated “Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah [Taxable] Lease
         Revenue [Refunding] Bonds, Series,” in each case inserting the year in which the Bonds
         are issued and an identifying Series letter or a project designation (if applicable).

                 (c)     Both the principal of and the interest on the Bonds shall be payable in any
         coin or currency of the United States of America, as at the respective time of payment,
         shall be legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Payment of the interest on
         any Bond shall be made to the person appearing on the Bond registration books of the Bond
         Registrar hereinafter provided for as the Registered Owner thereof by check or draft mailed
         to the Registered Owner at his address as it appears on such registration books or to owners
         of $1,000,000 or more in aggregate principal amount of Bonds (or owners of 100% of any
         Series then Outstanding) by wire transfer to a bank account within the United States
         designated by the Registered Owner in written instructions furnished to the Trustee (unless
         otherwise specified by Supplemental Indenture). The interest on Bonds so payable, and
         punctually paid and duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will be paid to the
         person who is the Registered Owner thereof at the close of business on the Regular Record
         Date for such interest. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             13
         forthwith cease to be payable to the registered owner of any Bond on such Regular Record
         Date and may be paid to the person who is the Registered Owner thereof at the close of
         business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such defaulted interest to be fixed
         by the Trustee, notice thereof to be given to such Registered Owner not less than ten days
         prior to such Special Record Date. The principal of and premium, if any, on Bonds are
         payable upon presentation and surrender thereof at the principal corporate trust office of
         the Trustee as Paying Agent, except as otherwise provided by Supplemental Indenture. All
         such payments shall be valid and effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability upon such
         Bond to the extent of the sum or sums so paid.

                (d)     The Bonds of each Series may contain or have endorsed thereon such
         provisions, specifications and descriptive words not inconsistent with the provisions hereof
         as may be necessary or desirable to comply with custom, the rules of any securities
         exchange or commission or brokerage board or otherwise, as may be specified in the
         Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Series of Bonds.

        Section 2.3 Execution; Limited Obligation. The Bonds shall be executed on behalf of
the Authority with the manual or official facsimile signature of its Chair/President, countersigned
with the manual or official facsimile signature of the Secretary-Treasurer, and shall have impressed
or imprinted thereon the corporate seal or facsimile thereof of the Authority. In case any officer,
the facsimile of whose signature shall appear on the Bonds, shall cease to be such officer before
the delivery of such Bonds, such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all
purposes, the same as if such officer had remained in office until delivery.

        The Bonds shall not be general obligations but shall be special, limited obligations of the
Authority payable solely out of and to the extent available from the Base Rentals, and, if paid by
the City, the Purchase Option Price under the Master Lease and other amounts derived from the
leasing of the Projects (except to the extent paid out of moneys attributable to the proceeds derived
from the sale of the Bonds or to income from the temporary investment thereof and, under certain
circumstances, to moneys held in funds or accounts by the Trustee, to Net Proceeds from insurance
policies, performance bonds, condemnation awards and liquidation proceeds with respect to the
Projects and from Direct Payments) and shall be a valid claim of the respective Bondholders
thereof only against the Bond Fund, the Debt Service Reserve Fund and other moneys held by the
Trustee and the Base Rentals, and other amounts derived from the leasing of the Projects under
the Master Lease, which Base Rentals and other amounts are hereby pledged, assigned and
otherwise secured for the equal and ratable payment of the Bonds and shall be used for no other
purpose than to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds (including any
make whole interest payments or redemption premiums on any Bonds), except as may be otherwise
expressly authorized in the Indenture or in the Master Lease. The Authority shall not be obligated
to pay the principal of such Bonds or the interest thereon or other costs incident thereto except
from the moneys pledged therefor under the Indenture. The Bonds and the interest thereon shall
never constitute an indebtedness of the City within the meaning of any constitutional limitation or
statutory provision and shall not constitute or give rise to a pecuniary liability of the City or a
charge against the general credit or taxing power of the City. Neither the City nor the Authority on
its behalf has pledged the credit of the City to the payment of the Bonds, the interest thereon or
amounts due or to become due under the Master Lease. The City shall not be obligated to
appropriate Funds for the purpose of paying Base Rentals, Additional Rentals or the Purchase


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             14
Option Price under the Master Lease, and no judgment may be entered against the City in the event
of an insufficiency of moneys to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds.
The payment obligations of the City under the Master Lease are subject to annual renewal and will
be terminated upon the occurrence of an Event of Nonappropriation. In such event, all payments
from the City under the Master Lease will terminate, and the Bonds and the interest thereon will
be payable solely from and to the extent of such moneys, if any, as may be held by the Trustee
under the Indenture (except amounts held for the payment of Bonds not deemed Outstanding) and,
subject to the provisions of Article IX hereof, any moneys made available from a liquidation of
the Authority’s interest in the Project financed with such Bonds subsequent to foreclosure of the
lien of the Indenture and the Security Documents. No deficiency judgment subsequent to
foreclosure of the lien of the Indenture and the Security Documents may be entered against the
City or the Authority, and no breach of any provision of the Master Lease, the Security Documents
or the Indenture shall impose any general obligation or liability upon or a charge against the City,
the Authority or upon the general credit or taxing powers of the City. Except as expressly provided
in the Master Lease, no judgment requiring a payment of money may be entered against the City
under the Master Lease.

        The provisions of this Section relating to the execution of Bonds may be modified as they
apply to the Bonds of any Series by the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Series of Bonds.

         Section 2.4    Authentication and Delivery of Bonds.

                 (a)     The Authority shall deliver executed Bonds of each Series to the Trustee for
         authentication and registration. Subject to the satisfaction of the conditions for
         authentication of Bonds set forth herein, the Trustee and Bond Registrar shall authenticate
         and register, respectively, such Bonds, and deliver them upon the order of the Authority to
         the purchasers thereof upon the payment by the purchasers to the Trustee for the account
         of the Authority of the purchase price therefor. Delivery by the Trustee shall be full
         acquittal to the purchasers for the purchase price of such Bonds, and such purchasers shall
         be under no obligation to see to the application thereof. The proceeds of the sale of such
         Bonds shall, however, be disposed of only as provided herein and in the Master Lease, and
         in the Supplemental Indenture executed in connection therewith.

                 (b)     No Bond shall be valid or obligatory for any purpose or entitled to any
         security or benefit hereunder, unless and until a certificate of authentication on such Bond
         substantially in the form set forth in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Bond
         shall have been duly executed by the Trustee, and such executed certificate of the Trustee
         upon any such Bond shall be conclusive evidence that such Bond has been authenticated
         and delivered hereunder. The Trustee’s certificate of authentication on any Bond shall be
         deemed to have been executed by it if signed by an authorized officer of the Trustee, but it
         shall not be necessary that the same officer sign the certificate of authentication on all of
         the Bonds issued hereunder.

                (c)     Prior to the authentication by the Trustee of each Series of Bonds there shall
         have been filed with the Trustee:




4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              15
                       (i)         A copy, duly certified by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Authority,
                  of the resolution of the Authority and a copy, duly certified by the City Recorder
                  of the City, of the resolution of the City, each approving the execution and delivery
                  of the instruments specified in Subparagraphs (ii) and (iii) below and the execution
                  and delivery of such Series of Bonds, together with a certificate, dated as of the
                  date of authentication of such Series of Bonds, of the Secretary-Treasurer and the
                  City Recorder, respectively, that such proceedings are still in force and effect
                  without amendments except as shown in such proceedings;

                       (ii)      A copy, duly certified by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Authority,
                  of (a) this General Indenture (to the extent not theretofore so filed) and the
                  Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Series of Bonds and (b) the Master Lease
                  (to the extent not theretofore so filed) and any amendments to the Master Lease
                  executed in connection with such Supplemental Indenture and such Series of
                  Bonds;

                      (iii)     Original executed counterparts of the Security Documents identified
                  in such Supplemental Indenture;

                      (iv)       A request and authorization to the Trustee on behalf of the Authority
                  and signed by the Chair/President of the Authority to authenticate and deliver the
                  Bonds to the purchasers therein identified upon payment to the Trustee, but for the
                  account of the Authority, of a sum specified in such request and authorization. The
                  proceeds of such payment shall be deposited with the Trustee as provided in the
                  Master Lease and the Supplemental Indenture;

                       (v)        (A) In the case of the Initial Bonds, an ALTA mortgagee title policy
                  or policies, or commitment therefor, of mortgage title insurance in an aggregate
                  amount equal to not less than the principal amount of the Initial Bonds insuring the
                  lien of the Security Documents identified in the Supplemental Indenture, subject
                  only to Permitted Encumbrances and (B) in the case of Additional Bonds and
                  Refunding Bonds, the title insurance specified in Section 2.14(b) and Section
                  2.13(c) hereof, respectively; alternatively, for the situations described in both (A)
                  and (B) (excluding Refunding Bonds), the Authority may reasonably expect to be
                  able to deliver the required mortgage title insurance following delivery of the
                  related Series of Bonds, provided that no proceeds of such Bonds shall be drawn
                  out of the Construction Fund until such mortgage title insurance is delivered (except
                  for costs of issuance related to such Bonds);

                      (vi)       A written opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel, to the
                  effect that (a) the Authority has authorized the execution and delivery of the
                  General Indenture and Supplemental Indenture and such Series of Bonds, (b) the
                  General Indenture and Supplemental Indenture have been duly executed and
                  delivered by the Authority and are valid and binding agreements of the Authority;
                  and (c) such Series of Bonds have been duly executed and delivered to the Trustee
                  by the Authority and, upon authentication thereof by the Trustee pursuant to the



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                               16
                  Indenture and delivery thereof by the Trustee pursuant to the request referred to in
                  Subparagraph (iv), will be valid and binding obligations of the Authority;

                     (vii)      A written opinion of counsel to the City as to the legal, valid and
                  binding nature of the Master Lease as against the City and such other matters as
                  may be reasonably required by the purchasers of such Series of Bonds;

                    (viii)      A written opinion of counsel to the Authority as to the legal, valid
                  and binding nature of the Master Lease, the General Indenture, the Supplemental
                  Indenture and the Security Documents as against the Authority and such other
                  matters as may be reasonably required by the purchasers of such Series of Bonds;

                      (ix)       Evidence that upon the issuance of such Bonds there will be on
                  deposit in the Debt Service Reserve Fund an amount (including Reserve
                  Instruments) at least equal to the Debt Service Reserve Requirement, if any, for all
                  Bonds to be Outstanding immediately following the issuance of such Bonds;

                      (x)        The items required by Section 2.13 in the case of Refunding Bonds
                  and Section 2.14 in the case of Additional Bonds; and

                      (xi)        Such other agreements, certificates, documents and opinions as are
                  required to be delivered to the purchasers of such Series of Bonds or to the Security
                  Instrument Issuers.

       Section 2.5 Form of Bonds. For each Series of Bonds, the text of such Bonds, and the
Trustee’s Authentication Certificate shall be in substantially the forms thereof set forth in the
Supplemental Indenture authorizing the issuance of such Bonds, with such omissions, insertions
and variations not inconsistent with the terms hereof as may be necessary, desirable, authorized
and permitted hereby.

        Section 2.6 Mutilated, Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Bonds. In the event any Bond is
mutilated, lost, stolen or destroyed, the Authority may execute and the Trustee may authenticate a
new Bond of like date, maturity and denomination to that mutilated, lost, stolen or destroyed;
provided that, in the case of any mutilated Bond, such mutilated Bond shall first be surrendered to
the Trustee, and in the case of any lost, stolen or destroyed Bond, there shall be first furnished to
the Authority and the Trustee evidence of such loss, theft or destruction satisfactory to the
Authority and the Trustee, together in each case with an indemnity satisfactory to them. In the
event any such Bond shall have matured or been redeemed or be approaching maturity, instead of
issuing a duplicate Bond, the Authority may pay the same on or after the due date thereof without
surrender thereof, making such requirements as it deems fit for its protection, including a lost
instrument bond or other satisfactory indemnity. The Authority and the Trustee may charge the
Bondholder of such Bond with their reasonable fees and expenses in this connection. Any Bond
issued pursuant to this Section shall be deemed part of the Series of the Bonds in respect of which
it was issued and an original additional contractual obligation of the Authority. This Section 2.6 is
subject to additional stipulations as may be provided by Supplemental Indenture.

       Section 2.7 Registration and Exchange of Bonds; Persons Treated as Owners. The
Authority shall cause books for the registration and for the transfer of the Bonds to be kept by the


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                               17
Trustee which is hereby constituted and appointed the Bond Registrar of the Authority, provided,
however, that the Authority may by Supplemental Indenture select a party other than the Trustee
to act as Bond Registrar with respect to the Series of Bonds issued under said Supplemental
Indenture. Any Bond may, in accordance with its terms, be transferred only upon the registration
books kept by the Bond Registrar, by the person in whose name it is registered, in person or by his
duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of such Bond for cancellation (or as otherwise provided
by the related Supplemental Indenture), accompanied by delivery of a written instrument of
transfer in a form approved by the Bond Registrar, duly executed. No transfer shall be effective
until entered on the registration books kept by the registrar. This Indenture shall constitute a
“system of registration” for all purposes of the Registered Public Obligations Act, Title 15, Chapter
7, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended. Upon surrender for transfer of any Bond at the
principal office of the Trustee, duly endorsed for transfer or accompanied by an assignment duly
executed by the Bondholder or his attorney duly authorized in writing, the Authority shall execute
and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees a new,
fully registered Bond or Bonds of the same Series and the same maturity for a like aggregate
principal amount as the Bond to be transferred. Bonds may be exchanged at the principal corporate
trust office of the Trustee for a like aggregate principal amount of Bonds of other authorized
denominations of the same Series and the same maturity. The execution by the Authority of any
Bond of any authorized denomination shall constitute full and due authorization of such
denomination, and the Trustee shall thereby be authorized to authenticate and deliver such Bond
upon such exchange. The Authority and the Trustee shall not be required to transfer or exchange
any Bond (i) during the period from and including any Regular Record Date, to and including the
next succeeding Interest Payment Date, (ii) during the period from and including the day fifteen
days prior to any Special Record Date, to and including the date of the proposed payment
pertaining thereto, (iii) during the period from and including the day fifteen days prior to the
mailing of notice calling any Bonds for redemption, to and including the date of such mailing, or
(iv) at any time following the mailing of notice calling such Bond for redemption.

        The Authority, the Bond Registrar and the Paying Agent may treat and consider the person
in whose name each Bond is registered on the registration books kept by the Bond Registrar as the
holder and absolute owner thereof for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the
principal or redemption price thereof and interest due thereon and for all other purposes
whatsoever, and neither the Authority, nor the Bond Registrar nor the Paying Agent shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary. Payment of or on account of either principal of or interest
on any Bond shall be made only to or upon order of the Registered Owner thereof or such person’s
legal representative, but such registration may be changed as hereinabove provided. All such
payments shall be valid and effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability upon such Bond to the
extent of the sum or sums so paid.

       The Trustee shall require the payment by the Bondholder requesting exchange or transfer
of Bonds of any tax or other governmental charges which are required to be paid with respect to
such exchange or transfer and such charges shall be paid before such new Bond shall be delivered.

      Section 2.8 Designation of the Trustee as Bond Registrar and Paying Agent and
Designation of Any Additional Paying Agents. The Trustee is hereby designated and agrees to act
as Bond Registrar and Paying Agent for and in respect to the Bonds. The Authority hereby
covenants and agrees to cause the necessary arrangements to be made through the Trustee and to


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             18
be thereafter continued for the designation of any additional paying agents and for the making
available of moneys hereunder for the payment of such of the Bonds as shall be presented when
due at the principal office of said additional paying agent.

        Section 2.9 Cancellation. All Bonds which have been surrendered for payment
(provided payment in full has actually been received by the Owners of such Bonds), redemption
or exchange, and Bonds purchased from any moneys held by the Trustee hereunder or surrendered
to the Trustee by the Authority, shall be canceled and destroyed by the Trustee and shall not be
reissued.

        Section 2.10 Nonpresentation of Bonds. Unless otherwise provided by Supplemental
Indenture, in the event any Bond shall not be presented for payment when the principal thereof
becomes due, either at maturity or otherwise, or at the date fixed for redemption thereof, if funds
sufficient to pay such Bond shall have been made available to the Trustee, all liability of the
Authority to the Registered Owner thereof for the payment of such Bond shall forthwith cease,
determine and be completely discharged, and thereupon it shall be the duty of the Trustee to hold
such fund or funds, without liability to the Registered Owner of such Bond for interest thereon, for
the benefit of the Registered Owner of such Bond who shall thereafter be restricted exclusively to
such fund or funds for any claim of whatever nature on his part hereunder or on, or with respect
to, said Bond. If any Bond shall not be presented for payment within four (4) years following the
date when such Bond becomes due, whether by maturity or otherwise, the Trustee shall, to the
extent permitted by law, repay to the Authority the funds theretofore held by it for payment of such
Bond, and such Bond shall, subject to the defense of any applicable statute of limitation, thereafter
be an unsecured obligation of the Authority, and the Registered Owner thereof shall be entitled to
look only to the Authority for payment, and then only to the extent of the amount so repaid, and
the Authority shall not be liable for any interest thereon and shall not be regarded as a trustee of
such money. The provisions of this Section are subject to the provisions of Title 67, Chapter 4a,
Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended.

        Section 2.11 Initial Bonds. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Initial Bonds may be
authenticated and delivered by the Trustee upon satisfaction of the conditions specified in Section
2.4 hereof and any additional conditions specified in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such
Series of Bonds.

         Section 2.12 Temporary Bonds.

                 (a)     Until the definitive Bonds of any Series are prepared, the Authority may
         execute, in the same manner as is provided in Section 2.3 hereof, and upon the request of
         the Authority, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of definitive Bonds, but
         subject to the same provisions, limitations and conditions as the definitive Bonds except as
         to the denominations thereof, one or more temporary Bonds substantially of the tenor of
         the definitive Bonds in lieu of which such temporary Bond or Bonds are issued, in
         denominations authorized by the Authority, and with such omissions, insertions and
         variations not inconsistent with the Indenture as may be appropriate to temporary Bonds.
         The Authority at its own expense shall prepare and execute and, upon the surrender of such
         temporary Bonds (or as otherwise provided for in the related Supplemental Indenture), for
         exchange and the cancellation of such surrendered temporary Bonds, the Trustee shall


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             19
         authenticate and, without charge to the Registered Owner thereof, deliver in exchange
         therefor, definitive Bonds, of the same aggregate principal amount, Series and maturity as
         the temporary Bonds surrendered. Until so exchanged, the temporary Bonds shall in all
         respects be entitled to the same benefits and security as definitive Bonds authenticated and
         issued pursuant hereto.

                 (b)    If the Authority shall authorize the issuance of temporary Bonds in more
         than one denomination, the Registered Owner of any temporary Bond or Bonds may, at his
         option, surrender the same (or as otherwise provided for in the related Supplemental
         Indenture) to the Trustee in exchange for another temporary Bond or Bonds of like
         aggregate principal amount, series and maturity of any other authorized denomination or
         denominations, and thereupon the Authority shall execute and the Trustee shall
         authenticate and, in exchange for the temporary Bond or Bonds so surrendered, shall
         deliver a temporary Bond or Bonds of like aggregate principal amount, series and maturity
         in such other authorized denomination or denominations as shall be requested by such
         Registered Owner.

               (c)    All temporary Bonds surrendered in exchange either for another temporary
         Bond or Bonds or for a definitive Bond or Bonds shall be forthwith canceled by the Trustee.

        Section 2.13 Issuance of Refunding Bonds. So long as the Master Lease is in effect and
no Event of Default under the Indenture or the Master Lease has occurred and is continuing and
so long as no Event of Nonappropriation has occurred and is continuing, one or more Series of
Refunding Bonds may be issued, authenticated and delivered for the purpose of refunding Bonds
or other obligations of the Authority (with accompanying security documentation and pledge of
refinanced property). The Refunding Bonds may be issued in one or more Series, shall be
authenticated and registered by the Trustee and, upon payment to the Trustee of the proceeds of
said sale of Refunding Bonds, they shall be delivered by the Trustee to or upon the order of the
purchasers thereof, but only upon satisfaction of the conditions specified in Section 2.4 hereof and
there being filed with the Trustee:

                 (a)      Original executed counterparts of a Supplemental Indenture, a supplement
         or amendment (if necessary) to the Security Documents and the Master Lease providing
         for the issuance of such Refunding Bonds, and further providing for a revision to the Base
         Rentals to be paid by the City under the Master Lease to such amount as shall be necessary
         to pay, assuming that no Event of Default or Event of Nonappropriation shall occur, the
         principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds (including the Refunding Bonds
         being issued and any Bonds theretofore issued and to remain Outstanding), and to extend
         the Lease Term if the maturity of any of the Refunding Bonds would otherwise occur after
         the expiration of the then current Lease Term. The date or dates of the Refunding Bonds,
         the rate or rates of interest on the Refunding Bonds, and the redemption provisions (if any)
         with respect thereto all shall be as provided in the Supplemental Indenture;

                 (b)     If any of the Bonds being refunded were Tax-Exempt Bonds or were
         designated as Tax Credit Bonds qualifying for Direct Payments, a written opinion of
         nationally recognized bond counsel, to the effect that the exclusion from gross income of
         the interest on the Tax-Exempt Bonds being refunded or the status of the Bonds as Tax


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             20
         Credit Bonds qualifying for Direct Payments, for federal income tax purposes, will not be
         adversely affected by the issuance of the Refunding Bonds being issued;

                  (c)    A date-down endorsement to the ALTA mortgagee title insurance policy
         issued in connection with the issuance of the Bonds being refunded or commitment therefor
         (or if the bonds or other obligations being refunded were not issued pursuant to this
         Indenture, an ALTA Mortgagee title insurance policy or commitment therefor), which
         endorsement or policy shall insure to the date of issuance of such Refunding Bonds and
         the recording of any supplement or amendment to the Security Documents the continuing
         validity of the lien thereof, as modified by any supplement or amendment to the Security
         Documents, as a first and prior lien on the premises thereby secured, subject only to
         Permitted Encumbrances, and which endorsement or policy shall increase the amount of
         title insurance coverage thereunder, if necessary, to an amount, which when added to the
         coverage provided under any other title policies delivered with respect to other Bonds then
         Outstanding and issued with respect to the Project financed by the Bonds or other
         obligations to be refunded, is at least equal to the aggregate principal amount of all Bonds
         to be Outstanding with respect to such Project following said refunding and naming the
         Trustee as an insured; alternatively, the Authority may reasonably expect to be able to
         deliver the required mortgage title insurance following delivery of the related Series of
         Bonds, provided that no proceeds of such Bonds shall be drawn out of the Construction
         Fund until such mortgage title insurance is delivered (except for costs of issuance related
         to such Bonds);

                 (d)     (i) A report of an independent firm of certified public accountants to the
         effect that, upon the issuance of the Refunding Bonds, moneys and Direct Obligations will
         be deposited with the Trustee or an escrow agent sufficient to cause the Bonds (or other
         obligations) being refunded to be deemed paid under Article VIII hereof (or a comparable
         provision of the documents authorizing the obligations to be refunded even if not deemed
         paid for Cross-over Refunding Bonds); or (ii) in the event that the Bonds (or other
         obligations) to be refunded are to be redeemed on the date of issuance of the Refunding
         Bonds or within ninety (90) days thereafter, there shall be delivered to the Trustee evidence
         satisfactory to it that upon the issuance of the Refunding Bonds moneys and Direct
         Obligations will be deposited with the Trustee or an escrow agent sufficient, without taking
         into account investment earnings thereon, to redeem the Bonds (or other obligations); and

                (e)      A certificate of the Authority, stating that, as of the date of such delivery,
         no event or condition has happened or exists and is continuing, or is happening or existing,
         which constitutes, or which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute, an Event
         of Default under the Indenture or the Master Lease and there has not occurred and is then
         continuing an Event of Nonappropriation; provided however that the existence of an Event
         of Default shall not preclude the issuance of any Refunding Bonds if: (i) the issuance of
         such Refunding Bonds otherwise complies with the provisions hereof and (ii) any Event of
         Default will cease to continue upon the issuance of such Refunding Bonds and the
         application of the proceeds thereof.

        Each Series of Refunding Bonds issued pursuant to this Indenture shall be equally and
ratably secured under the Indenture with the Initial Bonds and all other Series of Refunding Bonds


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              21
and Additional Bonds, if any, theretofore issued pursuant to the Indenture, without preference,
priority or distinction of any Bonds over any other thereof.

        Section 2.14 Additional Bonds. So long as the Master Lease is in effect and no Event of
Default under the Indenture or the Master Lease has occurred and is continuing and so long as no
Event of Nonappropriation has occurred and is continuing, one or more Series of Additional Bonds
may be issued, authenticated and delivered for the purpose of financing Costs of Acquisition and
Construction of a Project or Projects. The Additional Bonds may be issued in one or more Series,
shall be authenticated by the Trustee and registered and, upon payment to the Trustee of the
proceeds of said sale of Additional Bonds, they shall be delivered by the Trustee to or upon the
order of the purchasers thereof, but only upon satisfaction of the conditions specified in Section
2.4 hereof and there being filed with the Trustee:

                 (a)     Original executed counterparts of a Supplemental Indenture, additional
         Security Documents or a supplement or amendment (if necessary) to the Security
         Documents and Master Lease providing for the financing of a Project and for the issuance
         of the Additional Bonds and further providing for an increase in the Base Rentals to be
         paid by the City under the Master Lease in such amount as shall be necessary to pay,
         assuming that no Event of Default or Event of Nonappropriation shall occur, the principal
         of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds (including the Additional Bonds being issued
         and any Bonds theretofore issued and Outstanding), and to extend the Lease Term if the
         maturity of any of the Additional Bonds would otherwise occur after the expiration of the
         then current Lease Term. The date or dates of the Additional Bonds, the rate or rates of
         interest on the Additional Bonds, and the redemption provisions (if any) with respect
         thereto all shall be as provided in the Supplemental Indenture;

                 (b)     A date-down endorsement to the ALTA mortgagee title insurance policy
         issued in connection with the issuance of the Initial Bonds (or other Bonds) or commitment
         therefor or an additional ALTA mortgagee title insurance policy or commitment therefor,
         which endorsement or policy shall insure to the date of issuance of such Additional Bonds
         and the recording of any additional Security Documents or supplement to the Security
         Documents, if required, the continuing validity of the lien thereof, as modified by any
         supplement to the Security Documents, as a first and prior lien on the premises thereby
         secured, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances, and which endorsement or additional
         policy shall increase the amount of title insurance coverage thereunder by an amount at
         least equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Additional Bonds to be issued (or in
         the case of Additional Bonds issued to complete or extend a Project previously financed
         hereunder the endorsement to the original policy for such Project shall increase the
         coverage to at least the aggregate principal amount of Bonds issued for such Project to be
         Outstanding following the issuance of such Additional Bonds) and naming the Trustee as
         an insured. In the event that the property upon which additional projects are to be located
         has not been acquired at or prior to the time of issuance of the Additional Bonds, the
         amendment to Master Lease relating to such Additional Bonds shall require that such
         endorsement or additional title policy with respect to such property be delivered at the time
         of or prior to any disbursements being made from the Construction Fund with respect to
         such portion of the Project (except for costs of issuance related to such Bonds);



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              22
                 (c)     If such Series of Additional Bonds is being issued in whole or in part for
         construction purposes, (i) a copy, duly certified by the Secretary-Treasurer of the
         Authority, of the project contract and architect’s agreement with respect to such
         construction and the performance and payment bond covering such contract or, in the
         alternative, a requirement that a copy of such documents be delivered to the Trustee prior
         to the time that moneys are withdrawn from the Construction Fund with respect to such
         portions of the Project, and (ii) a certificate of the architect or engineer responsible for
         planning and designing any such construction which sets forth the estimated useful life of
         the Project or Projects, as so improved and extended, in compliance with Section 17D-2-
         301 of the Act; and

                (d)      A certificate of the Authority, stating that as of the date of such delivery no
         event or condition has happened or exists and is continuing, or is happening or existing,
         which constitutes, or which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute, an Event
         of Default under the Indenture or the Master Lease and there has not occurred and is then
         continuing an Event of Nonappropriation; provided however that the existence of an Event
         of Default shall not preclude the issuance of any Additional Bonds if: (i) the issuance of
         such Additional Bonds otherwise complies with the provisions hereof and (ii) any Event
         of Default will cease to continue upon the issuance of such Additional Bonds and the
         application of the proceeds thereof.

        Each Series of Additional Bonds issued pursuant to the Indenture shall be equally and
ratably secured under the Indenture with the Initial Bonds and all other Series of Additional Bonds
and Refunding Bonds, if any, theretofore issued pursuant to the Indenture, without preference,
priority or distinction of any Bonds over any other thereof.

                                             ARTICLE III

                                   REDEMPTION PROVISIONS

       Section 3.1 Redemption. The Bonds of a Series may be callable for redemption prior
to maturity as provided in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing said Series of Bonds.

         Section 3.2 Extraordinary Redemption. The Bonds of a Series shall be callable for
redemption prior to maturity in whole on any date, if (i) the Project financed by such Series or a
material portion thereof is damaged or destroyed or taken in a condemnation proceeding, or a
material defect in the construction of said Project shall become apparent, or title to or the use of
all or any material portion of said Project shall be lost by reason of a defect in title thereto, (ii) the
Net Proceeds of any insurance policy, performance bond or condemnation award made available
by reason of one or more such occurrences shall be insufficient to pay in full the cost of repairing
or replacing such portion of said Project, and (iii) the City elects to discharge its obligation to
repair and replace such portion of said Project by depositing such Net Proceeds into the Bond
Fund. Upon the deposit of such Net Proceeds in the Bond Fund, the payment obligations of the
City with respect to said Project or Projects financed by such Series of Bonds under the Master
Lease shall terminate and the City shall have no further obligation for the payment of Base Rentals
and Additional Rentals with respect to said Project or Projects, and possession of said Project or
Projects, as well as all right, title and interest of the City and the Authority in any funds or accounts


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                               23
created under the Indenture with respect to said Project or Projects shall be surrendered to the
Trustee, as trustee for the Bondholders. Thereafter, the Indenture and the Security Documents
applicable to said Project or Projects may, subject to the limitations of Article IX hereof, be
foreclosed and the Authority’s interest in said Project or Projects liquidated and the proceeds of
such liquidation and the Net Proceeds of any insurance policy, performance bond or condemnation
award so deposited in the Bond Fund, as well as all other moneys on deposit in any fund created
under the Indenture with respect to said Project or Projects (except moneys held in the Rebate
Fund or for the payment of Bonds not then deemed outstanding), shall be applied by the Trustee
to the redemption of the applicable Series of Bonds at the earliest date practicable. Any such
redemption of said Series of Bonds shall be made upon payment of all or a prorated portion of the
principal amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon to the redemption date. IN THE EVENT
THE BONDS OF ANY SERIES ARE TO BE REDEEMED BY PAYMENT OF AN AMOUNT
LESS THAN THE OUTSTANDING PRINCIPAL AMOUNT THEREOF, AND ACCRUED
INTEREST TO THE REDEMPTION DATE, NO FURTHER CLAIM FOR PAYMENT MAY
BE HAD BY THE BONDHOLDERS AGAINST THE AUTHORITY, THE CITY, ANY
SUBLESSEE OR THE TRUSTEE WITH RESPECT TO SAID SERIES OF BONDS. In the event
there are moneys remaining in the Bond Fund after payment in full of all Bonds of said Series
issued under the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized and directed to transfer said moneys to the
City.

        Section 3.3 Other Redemption Provisions. The Term Bonds of each Series may be
subject, to the extent provided in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing each such Series of
Bonds, to redemption prior to maturity by operation of Sinking Fund Installments required to be
made to the Sinking Fund Account. The Bonds of each Series shall further be subject to redemption
prior to maturity at the option of the Authority at such times and upon such terms as shall be fixed
by such Supplemental Indenture. If fewer than all of the Bonds of any one maturity of a Series
shall be called for redemption, the particular Bonds or portions thereof, as determined in
accordance with Section 3.7 herein, to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee in such manner
as the Trustee, in its discretion, may deem proper in order to assure each Registered Owner of
Bonds of such Series or maturity a fair opportunity to have their Bond or Bonds or portions thereof
selected.

         Section 3.4     Notice of Redemption.

                 (a)     In the event any of the Bonds are to be redeemed, the Bond Registrar shall
         cause notice to be given as provided in this Section 3.4. Unless otherwise specified in the
         Supplemental Indenture authorizing the issuance of the applicable Series of Bonds, notice
         of such redemption (i) shall be filed with the paying agent designated for the Bonds being
         redeemed; and (ii) shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, to all Registered
         Owners of Bonds to be redeemed at their addresses as they appear on the registration books
         of the Bond Registrar at least thirty (30) days but not more than sixty (60) days prior to the
         date fixed for redemption. Such notice shall state the following information:

                       (i)       the complete official name of the Bonds, including Series, to be
                  redeemed, the identification numbers of Bonds and the CUSIP numbers, if any, of
                  the Bonds being redeemed, provided that any such notice shall state that no
                  representation is made as to the correctness of CUSIP numbers either as printed on


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              24
                  such Bonds or as contained in the notice of redemption and that reliance may be
                  placed only on the identification numbers contained in the notice or printed on such
                  Bonds;

                      (ii)        any other descriptive information needed to identify accurately the
                  Bonds being redeemed, including, but not limited to, the Original Issue Date of,
                  and interest rate on, such Bonds;

                      (iii)     in the case of partial redemption of any Bonds, the respective
                  principal amounts thereof to be redeemed;

                       (iv)      the date of mailing of redemption notices and the redemption date;

                       (v)       the redemption price;

                      (vi)       that on the redemption date the redemption price will become due
                  and payable upon each such Bond or portion thereof called for redemption, and that
                  interest thereon shall cease to accrue from and after said date, provided that the
                  Registered Owner of such Bonds actually receives payment on said redemption
                  date; and

                     (vii)       the place where such Bonds are to be surrendered for payment of the
                  redemption price, designating the name and address of the redemption agent with
                  the name of a contact person and telephone number.

                 (b)     In addition to the foregoing, further notice of any redemption of Bonds
         hereunder shall be given by the Trustee, to at least one national information service that
         disseminates notices of redemption of obligations such as the Bonds (which may be the
         Electronic Municipal Market Access System). Such further notice shall contain the
         information required in clause (a) above. Failure to give all or any portion of such further
         notice shall not in any manner defeat the effectiveness of a call for redemption.

                 (c)    Upon the payment of the redemption price of Bonds being redeemed, each
         check or other transfer of funds issued for such purpose shall bear the CUSIP number, if
         any, identifying, by issue and maturity, of the Bonds being redeemed with the proceeds of
         such check or other transfer.

                (d)     If at the time of mailing of any notice of optional redemption there shall not
         be on deposit with the Trustee moneys sufficient to redeem all the Bonds called for
         redemption, such notice shall state that such redemption is subject to the deposit of the
         redemption moneys with the Trustee not later than the opening of business on the
         redemption date and that such notice shall be of no effect unless such moneys are so
         deposited and transmitted to the Registered Owners of said Bonds on the redemption date.

                (e)    A second notice of redemption shall be given, not later than ninety (90) days
         subsequent to the redemption date, to Registered Owners of Bonds or portions thereof
         redeemed but who failed to deliver Bonds for redemption prior to the 60th day following
         such redemption date. Any notice mailed shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                               25
         given, whether or not the owner of such Bonds receives the notice. Receipt of such notice
         shall not be a condition precedent to such redemption, and failure so to receive any such
         notice by any of such registered Owners shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for
         the redemption of the Bonds.

                 (f)     In case any Bond is to be redeemed in part only and subject to Section 3.7
         hereof, the notice of redemption which relates to such Bond shall state also that on or after
         the redemption date, upon surrender of such Bond, a new Bond in principal amount equal
         to the unredeemed portion of such Bond will be issued.

        Section 3.5 Redemption Payments. On or prior to the date fixed for redemption,
moneys shall be deposited by the Authority with the Trustee to pay to the Paying Agent, and the
Paying Agent is hereby authorized and directed to apply such moneys to the payment of the Bonds,
or portions thereof called, together with accrued interest thereon to the redemption date, and any
required premium. Upon the giving of notice, the deposit of moneys for redemption with the
Paying Agent and the sending of said moneys by the Paying Agent to the Holders of the Bonds to
be redeemed, interest on the Bonds or portions thereof thus called shall no longer accrue after the
date fixed for redemption and said Bonds shall cease to be entitled to any lien, benefit or security
under the Indenture or the Security Documents, and the Bondholders of said Bonds shall have no
rights in respect thereof except to receive payments of the redemption price thereof. Unless
otherwise specified in a Supplemental Indenture, no payment shall be made by the Paying Agent
upon any Bond or portion thereof called for redemption until such Bond or portion thereof shall
have been delivered for payment or cancellation or the Trustee shall have received the items
required by Section 2.6 hereof with respect to any mutilated, lost, stolen or destroyed Bond.

       Section 3.6 Cancellation. All Bonds which have been redeemed shall not be reissued
but shall be canceled and destroyed by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.9 hereof.

        Section 3.7 Partial Redemption of Bonds. Unless otherwise specified in the
Supplemental Indenture authorizing the issuance of the applicable Series of Bonds, in case any
registered Bond shall be redeemed in part only, upon the presentation of such Bond for such partial
redemption, the Authority shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and shall deliver or
cause to be delivered to or upon the written order of the Registered Owner thereof, at the expense
of the Authority, a Bond or Bonds of the same Series, interest rate and maturity, in aggregate
principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of such registered Bond. If less than all of the
applicable Series of Bonds of any maturity are to be redeemed, the particular Bond or portion of
Bonds of such maturity to be redeemed will be selected at random by the Bond Registrar in such
manner as the Bond Registrar in its discretion may deem fair and appropriate, unless otherwise
specified in the applicable Supplemental Indenture. Unless otherwise provided by Supplemental
Indenture, a portion of any Bond of the authorized denomination of more than the authorized
denomination to be redeemed will be in the principal amount of the authorized denomination or
an integral multiple thereof and in selecting portions of such Bonds for redemption, the Trustee
will treat each such Bond as representing that number of Bonds of the authorized denomination
which is obtained by dividing the principal amount of such Bonds by the authorized denomination.




4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              26
                                            ARTICLE IV

                                    GENERAL COVENANTS

        Section 4.1 Payment of Principal and Premium, if any, and Interest. The Authority
covenants that it will promptly pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on every
Bond issued under this Indenture at the place, on the dates and in the manner provided herein and
in the Bonds according to the true intent and meaning thereof, but solely from the Trust Estate
created by the Indenture, including the Base Rentals and, if paid by the City under the Master
Lease, the Purchase Option Price with respect to a Project or Projects, and other amounts pledged
therefor which are from time to time held by the Trustee in the Bond Fund and the Debt Service
Reserve Fund. The principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds are payable solely
from the Trust Estate created by the Indenture, including the Base Rentals and, if paid by the City
under the Master Lease, the Purchase Option Price with respect to a Project or Projects, and other
amounts derived from the lease of the Projects and otherwise as provided herein, in the Security
Documents, and in the Master Lease, which amounts are hereby specifically pledged to the
payment thereof in the manner and to the extent herein and in the Master Lease specified, and
nothing in the Bonds or in the Indenture shall be construed as pledging any other funds or assets
of the Authority or the City. The Authority shall in no event be liable for the payment of the
principal of and premium, if any, or interest on any of the Bonds or for the performance of any
pledge, obligation or agreement undertaken by the Authority except to the extent that the moneys,
properties, interests and assets constituting the Trust Estate are sufficient therefor.

         Section 4.2    Performance of Covenants; Due Authority. The Authority covenants that it
will faithfully perform at all times any and all covenants, undertakings, stipulations and provisions
on its part contained in the Indenture, in the Master Lease, in the Security Documents, in any and
every Bond executed, authenticated and delivered hereunder and in all of its proceedings
pertaining hereto. The Authority represents and warrants that it is duly authorized under its Articles
of Incorporation, the Constitution and laws of the State, including the Act, to issue the Bonds
authorized hereby and to execute the Indenture, to assign the Master Lease and to pledge the Base
Rentals, the Purchase Option Price and other amounts hereby pledged in the manner and to the
extent herein set forth, that all action required on its part for the issuance of the Bonds and the
execution and delivery of the Master Lease, the Security Documents and the Indenture has been
duly and effectively taken, and that the Bonds are and will be valid and enforceable special, limited
obligations of the Authority according to the terms thereof and hereof.

        Section 4.3 Ownership; Instruments of Further Assurance. The Authority covenants
that it will own the Projects, and any property becoming a part of the Projects shall be acquired
and kept, free of all liens and encumbrances, except Permitted Encumbrances. The Authority will
defend the title to and interest in the Projects and each part thereof to the Trustee, for the benefit
of the Bondholders against the claims and demands of all persons whomsoever, except for claims
and demands arising from Permitted Encumbrances as provided in the Master Lease. The
Authority will do, execute, acknowledge and deliver or cause to be done, executed, acknowledged
and delivered such Supplemental Indentures and such further acts, instruments and transfers as the
Trustee may reasonably require for the better assuring, transferring, conveying, pledging,
assigning and confirming unto the Trustee the Projects, the Base Rentals, Purchase Option Price
and other amounts pledged hereby to the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             27
interest on the Bonds. The Authority, except as herein and in the Master Lease or Security
Documents provided, will not sell, convey, mortgage, encumber or otherwise dispose of any part
of the Projects or the Base Rentals, the Additional Rentals, the Purchase Option Price, the revenues
and receipts therefrom or its rights under the Master Lease, together with any additions thereto and
substitutions therefor, subject to Permitted Encumbrances.

        Section 4.4 Perfection of Security Interest. The Indenture creates a valid and binding
pledge and assignment of and security interest in all of the personal property pledged as part of the
Trust Estate held by the Trustee under the Indenture in favor of the Trustee as security for payment
of the Bonds and amounts owed to any Security Instrument Issuer or any Reserve Instrument
Provider, enforceable by the Trustee in accordance with the terms thereof. Under the laws of the
State, such pledge and assignment and security interest is automatically perfected by Section 11-
14-501, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, and is and shall be prior to any judicial lien
hereafter imposed on the personal property pledged as part of the Trust Estate to enforce a
judgment against the Authority on a simple contract.

        Section 4.5 Inspection of Project Books. All books and records of the Authority
wherever located relating to the Projects and the Base Rentals, the Additional Rentals, Purchase
Option Price and other amounts derived from the Projects shall at all reasonable times be open to
inspection by such accountants or other agents as the Trustee or Bondholders may from time to
time designate.

        Section 4.6 List of Bondholders. The Trustee shall keep a list of names and addresses
of the Bondholders as from time to time registered on the registration books of the Authority
maintained by the Trustee as Bond Registrar, together with the principal amount and numbers of
such Bonds. At reasonable times and under reasonable regulations established by the Trustee, said
list may be inspected and copied by the City or by Bondholders (or a designated representative
thereof) of 15% or more in aggregate principal amount of Bonds then Outstanding, such ownership
and the authority of such designated representative to be evidenced to the satisfaction of the
Trustee.

        Section 4.7 Rights Under Master Lease. The Master Lease, a duly executed counterpart
of which has been filed with the Trustee, sets forth the covenants and obligations of the Authority
and the City, including provisions that, subsequent to the issuance of Bonds and prior to their
payment in full or provision for payment thereof in accordance with the provisions hereof, the
Master Lease may not be effectively amended, changed, modified or altered without the written
consent of the Trustee, and reference is hereby made to the same for a detailed statement of said
covenants and obligations of the Authority and the City thereunder, and the Authority agrees that
the Trustee in its name or in the name of the Authority may but shall not be obligated to enforce
all rights of the Authority and all obligations of the City under and pursuant to the Master Lease
for and on behalf of the Bondholders, whether or not the Authority is in default hereunder.

       Section 4.8 Payment of Taxes, Charges, Insurance. etc. The Authority shall cause the
City pursuant to the Master Lease to maintain certain insurance and pay all lawful taxes,
assessments and charges at any time levied or assessed against or with respect to the Projects, the
Base Rentals, the Additional Rentals, the Purchase Option Price, the Net Proceeds and any and all
other amounts held pursuant to the Indenture, or any part thereof, which might impair or prejudice


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             28
the lien and property of the Indenture; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Section
4.8 shall require the maintenance of insurance or payment of any such taxes, assessments or
charges if the same are not required to be maintained or paid under the provisions of the Master
Lease. The Authority shall maintain such insurance and pay such taxes, assessments and charges
to the same extent as provided in the Master Lease as if said provisions were herein set forth in
full, if and to the extent that the City fails to maintain such insurance or pay such taxes, assessments
or charges, but the liability hereby imposed on the Authority shall only be paid from the Trust
Estate as herein provided. At least 30 days prior to the last day of each Fiscal Year, the Authority
shall file or cause to be filed with the Trustee evidence of the insurance required pursuant to Article
VII (if applicable at the time) and Article IX of the Master Lease for the next succeeding Fiscal
Year. In the event that any required insurance will terminate or expire, the Authority shall file or
cause to be filed with the Trustee evidence of a replacement policy (or self-insurance, if permitted
under the Master Lease) at least 30 days prior to the termination or expiration date; provided,
however, if a policy is terminated without notice to the Authority or the City (and the actions or
omissions of the Authority or the City were not responsible for such termination), the Authority
shall provide or cause to be provided to the Trustee evidence of a replacement policy within 20
days after such termination.

        Section 4.9 Maintenance and Repair. Pursuant to the Master Lease, the City has agreed
at its own expense to maintain, manage and operate the Projects in good order, condition and
repair, and the City may, at its own expense, make from time to time additions, modifications or
improvements to the Projects under the terms and conditions set forth in the Master Lease.

        Section 4.10 Warranty. The Authority has the right, power and authority to grant a
mortgage lien on the Projects to the Trustee pursuant to the Security Documents and to pledge and
assign a security interest in the Trust Estate to the Trustee pursuant to the Indenture, all for the
uses and purposes herein set forth. The Authority warrants that there is no financing statement or
other filed or recorded instrument in which the Authority is named as, or which the Authority has
signed as, debtor now on file in any public office covering any of the Trust Estate excepting the
financing statements or other instruments filed or to be filed in respect of and for the security
interest provided for herein, or financing statements to be released in connection with the issuance
of Bonds and that the lien and security interest herein created have been duly perfected and are
prior to any other (other than the Permitted Encumbrances).

        Section 4.11 Further Assurances. The Authority will, at the City’s expense, do, execute,
acknowledge and deliver all and every act, deed, conveyance, transfer and assurance necessary or
proper for the perfection of the lien and security interest being herein provided for in the Trust
Estate, whether now owned or held or hereafter acquired, including, but not limited to, such
financing statements and continuation statements as shall be necessary under applicable law to
perfect and maintain the security interest being herein provided for in the Trust Estate.

         Section 4.12   Actions with Respect to Trust Estate. The Authority will not:

                (a)    Declare a default or exercise the remedies of the seller or lessor, as the case
         may be, under, or terminate, modify or accept a surrender of, or offer or agree to any
         termination, waiver, modification or surrender of, the Master Lease (except as otherwise
         expressly provided herein or in the Master Lease) or by affirmative act consent to the


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              29
         creation or existence of any lien or encumbrance (other than the security interest and lien
         of this Indenture and the Security Documents) to secure the payment of indebtedness upon
         the leasehold or other estate created by the Master Lease or any part of any thereof; or

                 (b)    Receive or collect or permit the receipt or collection of any payment under
         the Master Lease prior to the date for the payment thereof provided for by the Master Lease
         or assign, transfer or hypothecate (other than to the Trustee hereunder) any revenues or
         other payment then due or to accrue in the future under the Master Lease in respect of the
         Projects; or

                 (c)     Sell, mortgage, transfer, assign or hypothecate (other than to the Trustee
         hereunder) its interest in the Projects or any part thereof or interest therein or in any amount
         to be received by it from the disposition of the Projects except as herein provided under
         Article IX, and except as provided in the Master Lease and the Security Documents.

         Section 4.13 Power of Attorney in Respect of the Master Lease. The Authority does
hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint the Trustee its true and lawful attorney with an interest
and full power of substitution, for it and in its name, place and stead (a) to ask, demand, collect,
receive and receipt for any and all rents, income and other sums which are assigned under the
Granting Clauses hereof, and (b) without limiting the provisions of the foregoing clause (a) hereof:
during the continuance of any Event of Default under the Indenture, to exercise any remedies
available under the Master Lease and the Security Documents as fully as the Authority could itself
do, and to perform all other necessary or appropriate acts with respect to any such remedies, and
in its discretion to file any claim or take any other action or proceedings, either in its own name or
in the name of the Authority or otherwise, which the Trustee may deem necessary or appropriate
to protect and preserve the right, title and interest of the Trustee (but only to the extent specifically
provided herein) in the Master Lease and to the Base Rentals, the Additional Rentals, the Purchase
Option Price, the Net Proceeds and all other amounts payable under the Master Lease and other
sums and the security intended to be afforded hereby, whether or not the Authority is in default
hereunder.

                                              ARTICLE V

                                      REVENUES AND FUNDS

        Section 5.1 Source of Payment of Bonds. The Bonds herein authorized and all
payments by the Authority hereunder are not general obligations of the Authority but are special,
limited obligations of the Authority payable solely as provided in Section 2.3 hereof.

        The Projects have been leased under the Master Lease and the Base Rentals and the
Purchase Option Price provided for in Sections 6.2 and 12.1, respectively, of the Master Lease are
to be remitted directly to the Trustee for the account of the Authority and deposited in the Bond
Fund and the Debt Service Reserve Fund along with all other moneys authorized or required to be
deposited in the Bond Fund and Debt Service Reserve Fund under the Master Lease. Such Base
Rentals and the Purchase Option Price are hereby pledged to such payment. Said pledge shall
constitute a first and exclusive lien on the Base Rentals and the Purchase Option Price provided in




4928-1127-9713, v. 2                               30
the Master Lease for the payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, the
Bonds in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof.

       Section 5.2 Creation of Bond Fund. There is hereby created by the Authority and
ordered established in the custody of the Trustee a special trust fund to be designated “Local
Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, Bond Fund” (herein defined as the “Bond
Fund”), which shall be used to pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds.

       Section 5.3 Creation of Sinking Fund Account. There is hereby created by the
Authority and ordered established in the custody of the Trustee a separate account within the Bond
Fund to be designated “Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, Sinking Fund
Account” (herein defined as the “Sinking Fund Account”).

        Section 5.4     Creation of Debt Service Reserve Fund. There is hereby created by the
Authority and ordered established in the custody of the Trustee a special trust fund to be designated
“Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, Debt Service Reserve Fund.” By
Supplemental Indenture, there may be established within the Debt Service Reserve Fund a separate
account for each Series of Bonds. (Said Debt Service Reserve Fund and applicable accounts therein
are herein referred to as the “Debt Service Reserve Fund.”)

        Section 5.5 Creation of Construction Fund. There is hereby created by the Authority
and ordered established in the custody of the Trustee a special trust fund to be designated “Local
Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, Construction Fund.” There is hereby created and
ordered established in the custody of the Trustee a separate account within the Construction Fund
for each Series of Bonds. (Said Construction Fund and applicable accounts therein are herein
referred to as the “Construction Fund.”)

       Section 5.6 Creation of Rebate Fund. There is hereby created by the Authority and
ordered established in the custody of the Trustee a special trust fund to be designated “Local
Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, Rebate Fund” (herein defined as the “Rebate
Fund”).

        Section 5.7 Creation of Funds. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary, the Trustee need not create any of the funds or accounts referenced in this Article V until
such funds or accounts shall be utilized as provided in a Supplemental Indenture authorizing a
Series of Bonds. By Supplemental Indenture the Authority may authorize the creation of additional
funds and accounts within any funds.

         Section 5.8    Use of Bond Fund.

                 (a)    There shall be deposited into the Bond Fund all accrued interest received, if
         any, at the time of the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds. In addition, there shall be
         deposited into the Bond Fund, as and when received, (i) any amount directed to be paid
         into the Bond Fund pursuant to the Master Lease or any amount in the Debt Service Reserve
         Fund directed to be paid into the Bond Fund in accordance with the provisions of Section
         5.10 hereof; (ii) any Net Proceeds of any insurance policy, performance bond or
         condemnation award to be deposited in the Bond Fund pursuant to the Master Lease; (iii)
         all Base Rentals, and, if paid by the City, that portion of the Purchase Option Price


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              31
         attributable to the retirement of the applicable Series of Bonds issued hereunder, as
         specified in the Master Lease; and (iv) any Direct Payments and all other moneys received
         by the Trustee under and pursuant to any of the provisions hereof or of the Master Lease
         which are required or which are accompanied by directions that such moneys are to be paid
         into the Bond Fund. The Authority hereby covenants and agrees that so long as any of the
         Bonds issued hereunder are Outstanding it will deposit, or cause to be paid to the Trustee
         for deposit in the Bond Fund for its account, any moneys which are pledged under this
         Indenture for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds
         and which are required to be deposited into the Bond Fund.

                (b)     Except as provided in Section 5.15 herein, moneys in the Bond Fund shall
         be used solely for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the
         Bonds and for the redemption of the Bonds prior to maturity.

                 (c)    The Bond Fund shall be in the custody of the Trustee but in the name of the
         Authority, and the Authority hereby authorizes and directs the Trustee to withdraw
         sufficient funds from the Bond Fund to pay the principal of and premium, if any, and
         interest on the Bonds as the same become due and payable, which authorization and
         direction the Trustee hereby accepts.

         Section 5.9    Use of Sinking Fund Account.

                (a)     As required by Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee shall apply moneys in
         the Sinking Fund Account to the retirement of any Term Bonds required to be retired by
         operation of the Sinking Fund Account under the provisions of and in accordance with the
         Supplemental Indenture authorizing the issuance of such Term Bonds, either by
         redemption in accordance with such Supplemental Indenture or, at the direction of the
         Authority, purchase of such Term Bonds in the open market prior to the date on which
         notice of the redemption of such Term Bonds is given pursuant hereto, at a price not to
         exceed the redemption price of such Term Bonds (plus accrued interest which will be paid
         from moneys in the Bond Fund other than those in the Sinking Fund Account). Sinking
         Fund Installments may also be collected in the Sinking Fund Account without redemption
         of Bonds prior to maturity.

                (b)     On the maturity date of any Term Bonds, the Trustee shall apply the moneys
         on hand in the Sinking Fund Account for the payment of the principal of such Term Bonds.

         Section 5.10 Use of Debt Service Reserve Fund.

                (a)     Except as otherwise provided in this Section, moneys in accounts within the
         Debt Service Reserve Fund shall at all times be maintained in an amount not less than the
         Debt Service Reserve Requirement. In calculating the amount on deposit in each account
         of the Debt Service Reserve Fund, the amount available under the Reserve Instrument
         Coverage will be treated as an amount on deposit therein. Each Supplemental Indenture
         authorizing the issuance of a Series of Bonds shall specify that the amount, if any, of the
         Debt Service Reserve Requirement applicable to such Series which shall be deposited
         immediately upon the issuance and delivery of such Series either from (a) proceeds from



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             32
         the sale thereof or from any other legally available source or may be built up over time as
         provided by the Supplemental Indenture, or (b) by a Reserve Instrument, or (c) any
         combination thereof. Funds on deposit in accounts within the Debt Service Reserve Fund
         shall be used only to make up any deficiencies in accounts within the Bond Fund with
         respect to the related Series of Bonds.

                 (b)     If on any Interest Payment Date the moneys held in the Bond Fund are
         insufficient to pay all interest, premium, if any, and principal then becoming due on the
         Bonds of a Series for which an account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund has been
         established, the Trustee shall transfer, on or before such date, moneys from the applicable
         accounts within the Debt Service Reserve Fund to the Bond Fund to the extent necessary
         so that the amount of money so transferred plus all moneys then held in the Bond Fund for
         such Series of Bonds shall be sufficient to pay all interest, premium, if any, and principal
         payments then becoming due and payable on such date;

                 (c)     In the event funds on deposit in the Debt Service Reserve Fund are needed
         to make up any deficiencies in the Bond Fund as aforementioned, and there is insufficient
         cash available in an account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund to make up such deficiency
         and a Reserve Instrument applicable to such Series of Bonds is in effect, the Trustee shall
         immediately make a demand for payment on such Reserve Instrument, to the maximum
         extent authorized by such Reserve Instrument, in the amount necessary to make up such
         deficiency, and immediately deposit such payment upon receipt thereof into the Bond
         Fund. Thereafter, the Authority shall be obligated to reinstate the Reserve Instrument from
         Base Rentals received from the City under Section 6.2 of the Master Lease, including any
         interest owing on any draws on the Reserve Instrument.

                 (d)     No Reserve Instrument shall be allowed to expire or terminate while the
         related Series of Bonds is Outstanding unless and until cash has been deposited into the
         related account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund, or a new Reserve Instrument has been
         issued in place of the expiring or terminating Reserve Instrument, or any combination
         thereof in an amount or to provide coverage, as the case may be, at least equal to the amount
         required.

                (e)     In the event that the City shall exercise its option to purchase a Project or
         Projects and terminate its payment obligations under the Master Lease upon payment of
         the Purchase Option Price with respect to said Project or Projects, the Trustee shall transfer
         all moneys held in the Debt Service Reserve Fund (other than any amount drawn under any
         Reserve Instrument) applicable to said Project or Projects to the Bond Fund in accordance
         with the written direction of the City.

                 (f)      In the event moneys are drawn from the related account of the Debt Service
         Reserve Fund to pay principal, premium or interest on the related Series of Bonds, such
         that there shall be remaining in said account an amount less than the Debt Service Reserve
         Requirement, the Trustee shall immediately give notice to the Authority and the City of
         such deficiency. Such account shall be replenished to the Debt Service Reserve
         Requirement upon the deposit by the Trustee of the additional Base Rental payment to be
         paid by the City pursuant to the Master Lease.


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              33
                 (g)    Any moneys (other than any amount drawn under any Reserve Instrument)
         remaining in the related account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund with respect to a Series
         of Bonds on the final maturity of said Series of Bonds (whether at stated maturity or upon
         prior redemption) shall be transferred on such date into the Bond Fund.

                 (h)    If, following the payment of principal and interest due on a Series of Bonds
         on each Interest Payment Date, the moneys (other than any amount drawn under any
         Reserve Instrument) held in the related account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund exceed
         the related Debt Service Reserve Requirement, all moneys in excess of said sum shall be
         immediately transferred to the Bond Fund. To the extent so paid, such excess shall reduce
         the amount of the succeeding Base Rental otherwise payable under the Master Lease.

                 (i)     Moneys at any time on deposit in an account of the Debt Service Reserve
         Fund shall be used to make up deficiencies in the Bond Fund only for the Series of Bonds
         secured by said account and any Reserve Instrument shall only be drawn upon with respect
         to the Series of Bonds for which such Reserve Instrument was obtained.

         Section 5.11 Use of Construction Fund; Disbursements.

                (a)     The moneys in the Construction Fund shall be expended in accordance with
         the provisions of the Master Lease and the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Series
         of Bonds.

                 (b)     The Authority covenants and agrees to take all necessary and appropriate
         action promptly in approving and ordering disbursements from the Construction Fund in
         accordance with provisions of the Master Lease. The Trustee is hereby authorized and
         directed to make each disbursement so requested by the City on behalf of the Authority
         and to issue its checks therefor, but only in compliance with the provisions of the Master
         Lease. The Trustee shall keep and maintain adequate records pertaining to each account
         within the Construction Fund and all disbursements therefrom, and after the related Project
         has been completed and a certificate of payment of all costs is, or has been, filed as
         provided in Section 7.4 of the Master Lease, the Trustee shall file an account thereof with
         the Authority and the City.

       Section 5.12 Completion of Project. Any balance remaining in the Construction Fund
following the establishment of the Completion Date for a Project pursuant to the Master Lease
(except amounts the City shall have directed the Trustee to retain for any Cost of Acquisition and
Construction not then due and payable) shall at the direction of the City and the Authority, be used
as provided in the related Supplemental Indenture.

         Section 5.13 Rebate Fund and Arbitrage Rebate.

                 (a)     When directed in writing to do so by the Authority, the Trustee shall
         establish and thereafter maintain, so long as the Bonds are Outstanding, a Rebate Fund and
         an account therein for each such Series, which shall be held separate and apart from all
         other funds and accounts established under the Indenture and from all other moneys of the
         Trustee.



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             34
                 (b)     All amounts in the Rebate Fund, including income earned from investment
         of the fund, shall be held by the Trustee free and clear of the lien of the Indenture. In the
         event the amount on deposit in the Rebate Fund exceeds the aggregate amount of Rebatable
         Arbitrage for all Series of Bonds, as verified in writing by an independent public accountant
         or other qualified professional at the time the Rebatable Arbitrage is determined, less
         amounts of Rebatable Arbitrage theretofore paid to the United States for all Series of
         Bonds, the Trustee shall, upon the Authority’s request, withdraw from the Rebate Fund
         and pay to the Authority an amount not to exceed such excess.

                  (c)    The Authority shall determine the amount of Rebatable Arbitrage and the
         corresponding Required Rebate Deposit with respect to each Series of Bonds on each
         applicable Rebate Calculation Date. The Authority shall deposit into the Rebate Fund the
         Required Rebate Deposit, if any, with respect to each Series of Bonds (or instruct the
         Trustee to transfer to the Rebate Fund moneys representing such Required Rebate Deposit
         from the Funds and Accounts held under the Indenture other than the Rebate Fund) within
         30 days of each such Rebate Calculation Date. The Authority shall instruct the Trustee to
         withdraw from the Rebate Fund and pay over to the United States Government with respect
         to each Series of Bonds: (1) not less frequently than once each five years commencing no
         later than 60 days after the first Rebate Calculation Date for such Series of Bonds and upon
         each fifth anniversary of such date, an amount which when added to all previous rebate
         payments made with respect to such Series of Bonds equals 90% of the sum of the
         Rebatable Arbitrage pertaining to such Series of Bonds, and (2) not later than 60 days after
         the retirement of the last Bond of such Series, 100% of the Rebatable Arbitrage with respect
         to such Series. The determination of Rebatable Arbitrage made with respect to each such
         payment date and with respect to any withdrawal and payment to the Authority from the
         Rebate Fund pursuant to the Indenture must be verified in writing by an independent public
         accountant or other qualified professional.

                 (d)     The Trustee shall, at least 60 days prior to each Rebate Calculation Date,
         notify the Authority and the City of the requirements of this Section. By agreeing to give
         this notice, the Trustee assumes no responsibility whatsoever for compliance by the
         Authority with the requirements of Section 148 of the Code or any successor. The
         Authority expressly agrees that (notwithstanding any other provision of the Indenture) any
         failure of the Trustee to give any such notice, for any reason whatsoever, shall not cause
         the Trustee to be responsible for any failure of the Authority to comply with the
         requirements of said Section 148 or any successor thereof.

                 (e)      The Trustee, on behalf of the Authority shall keep and retain, until the date
         six years after the retirement of the last of the Bonds of each series, records with respect to
         each Series of the Bonds and the investment and expenditure of proceeds thereof to comply
         with the arbitrage rebate requirements of this Section, including without limitation a
         complete list of all investments and reinvestments of proceeds of each Series of the Bonds.
         For purposes of the computation required by this Section, the Trustee shall upon request,
         furnish to the Authority all information in the Trustee’s control which is necessary for such
         computations.




4928-1127-9713, v. 2                               35
                 (f)    The Authority hereby covenants and agrees that it will not enter into any
         transaction or cause any transaction to be entered into with respect to the investment of
         proceeds of the Bonds, or otherwise, which reduces the amount which may be required to
         be paid to the United States pursuant to the arbitrage rebate requirements specified
         hereinabove, because such transaction results in a smaller profit or a larger loss than would
         have resulted if the transaction had been at arm’s length and had the yield on each Series
         of the Bonds not been relevant to either party.

                 (g)     The provisions of this Section may be amended or deleted, with respect to
         any or all Series of the Bonds, from this Indenture upon receipt by the Authority and the
         Trustee of an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel that such amendment or
         deletion will not adversely affect (i) the exclusion from gross income of interest in the case
         of Tax-Exempt Bonds or (ii) the qualification of the Bonds for tax credits or Direct
         Payments in the case of Tax Credit Bonds.

        Section 5.14 Moneys to be Held in Trust. All moneys required to be deposited with or
paid to the Trustee for account to any fund referred to in any provision of the Indenture or the
Master Lease shall be held by the Trustee in trust, and except for moneys deposited with or paid
to the Trustee for the payment of Bonds not then deemed Outstanding shall, while held by the
Trustee, constitute part of the Trust Estate and be subject to the lien or security interest created
hereby.

        Section 5.15 Repayment to the City from Bond Fund or Debt Service Reserve Fund. Any
amounts remaining in the Bond Fund or the applicable account within the Debt Service Reserve
Fund after payment in full of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds of a
Series, the fees, charges and expenses of Trustee and all other amounts required to be paid
hereunder (including amounts owed to a Security Instrument or a Reserve Instrument Provider)
shall be paid immediately to the City as an overpayment of Base Rentals or Additional Rentals. In
the event that Direct Payments are deposited with the Trustee after the City has made the related
payment of Base Rentals, the City may elect to have the Trustee return to the City an amount equal
to such Direct Payments or to have the Trustee retain the Direct Payments in the Bond Fund and
take the credit with respect to the next required Base Rentals payment.

        Section 5.16 Custody of Separate Trust Fund. The Trustee is authorized and directed to
establish a separate trust fund after the Completion Date to hold all Net Proceeds from any
insurance policies, performance bonds or condemnation awards and disburse such proceeds in
accordance with the Master Lease, or if the City directs that the Net Proceeds be applied to redeem
Bonds pursuant to the Master Lease, the Authority covenants and agrees to transfer all of the Net
Proceeds in such fund to the Bond Fund and to redeem the Bonds as provided in the Indenture.

        Section 5.17 Cost of Issuance Account. The Trustee shall establish a Cost of Issuance
Account, into which shall be deposited upon delivery of a Series of Bonds, sufficient moneys to
pay costs of issuance of such Series of Bonds. The Trustee shall disburse said moneys upon receipt
of written authorization to pay costs of issuance executed by an Authority Representative. Any
remaining moneys on deposit therein after payment in full of all costs of issuance shall be
transferred by the Trustee to the Construction Fund, unless otherwise specified by Supplemental
Indenture.


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              36
        Section 5.18 Creation of Reserve Instrument Fund. There is hereby created and ordered
established in the custody of the Trustee a special trust fund to be designated the “Local Building
Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah Reserve Instrument Fund” (herein defined as the “Reserve
Instrument Fund”). By Supplemental Indenture, there may be established within the Reserve
Instrument Fund a separate account for each Series of Bonds.

        Section 5.19 Use of Reserve Instrument Fund. There shall be paid into the Reserve
Instrument Fund the amounts required hereby and by a Supplemental Indenture to be so paid in
order to reimburse or repay a Reserve Instrument Provider. The amounts in the Reserve Instrument
Fund shall, from time to time, be applied by the Trustee on behalf of the Authority to pay the
amounts which are due and payable to any Reserve Instrument Provider under any applicable
Reserve Instrument Agreement.

                                           ARTICLE VI

                                  INVESTMENT OF MONEYS

        Section 6.1 Trustee to Invest Funds. The City will direct the Trustee in investing
amounts held in the funds created hereunder. Any moneys held as part of the Construction Fund,
the Debt Service Reserve Fund, the Rebate Fund or any other fund shall be invested and reinvested
by the Trustee in Investment Obligations at the written direction of the City in accordance with the
provisions hereof and the Master Lease. Any such investments shall be held by or under the control
of the Trustee. The Trustee shall sell and reduce to cash a sufficient amount of such investments
within the Bond Fund whenever the cash balance therein is insufficient to pay the principal of and
premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds when due. All income and earnings from the investment
of amounts on deposit in any fund shall be retained therein; provided, however, that any moneys
held in the Debt Service Reserve Fund in excess of the Debt Service Reserve Requirement shall
be transferred to the Bond Fund at least annually.

       Section 6.2 Method of Valuation and Frequency of Valuation. In computing the amount
in any fund or account, Investment Obligations shall be valued at the fair market value of such
Obligations, exclusive of accrued interest. All funds and accounts are to be valued on the basis of
a market valuation conducted annually by the Trustee.

                                          ARTICLE VII

                                     RIGHTS OF THE CITY

        Section 7.1    Subordination of Master Lease to Indenture; Certain Rights to City. As
provided in the Master Lease, the Master Lease and the City’s interest in the Projects and its
interest as lessee under the Master Lease shall at all times be subject to the lien of the Indenture;
provided, however, that so long as no Event of Default hereunder or an Event of Nonappropriation
has occurred and is then continuing, the Master Lease shall remain in full force and effect
notwithstanding such subordination, and the City shall not be disturbed by the Authority or the
Trustee in its possession, use and enjoyment of the Projects during the term of the Master Lease
or in the enjoyment of its rights under the Master Lease; provided further that this Indenture and
the rights and privileges hereunder of the Trustee and Bondholders are specifically made subject


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             37
and subordinate to the rights and privileges of the City set forth in the Master Lease to exercise its
option to purchase the Projects in the event of, and subsequent to, the occurrence of an Event of
Default, but prior to the liquidation of the Authority’s interest in the Projects. As a condition of
the exercise of such option, the City under the Master Lease must pay, in addition to the Purchase
Option Price, any interest payment deficiencies accruing from the date of the Event of Default or
Event of Nonappropriation. The Trustee agrees that it shall execute and deliver any instrument
necessary or appropriate at any time to confirm, evidence or enable the City to enjoy such rights
and privileges, including without limitation, those referred to in Section 7.2 hereof.

        Section 7.2 Granting of Rights in and to the Projects. Reference is made to the
provisions of the Master Lease, whereby the Authority and the City have reserved the right to grant
rights in and to certain portions of the Projects and to withdraw portions of the Projects from the
terms of the Master Lease and the lien of this Indenture and the Security Documents upon
compliance with the terms and conditions of the Master Lease, unless otherwise provided by
Supplemental Indenture.

       Section 7.3 Release of Equipment Forming a Part of the Projects. Reference is made to
the provisions of the Master Lease, whereby the City, may withdraw certain items of equipment
forming a part of the Projects upon substitution of other property of comparable or greater value,
or upon deposit of sale proceeds in the Bond Fund, in conformity with the terms and conditions of
the Master Lease, unless otherwise provided by Supplemental Indenture.

         Section 7.4 Release of Portions of Project Upon Payment of Related Series of Bonds.
Pursuant to the Master Lease the City has been granted the option of purchasing a Project in
advance of the final maturity of the related Series of Bonds. So long as no Event of Default shall
have occurred and be continuing under the Indenture and so long as no Event of Default or Event
of Nonappropriation shall have occurred and be continuing under the Master Lease, a Project may
be released from the lien created with respect to the related Series of Bonds and the Indenture and
the Master Lease and transferred to the City if (a) the City shall deposit with the Trustee and the
Trustee shall send to the applicable Bondholders the Purchase Option Price for such Project; and
(b) if any of the related Series of the Bonds are Tax-Exempt Bonds or Tax Credit Bonds qualifying
for Direct Payments, there shall have been delivered to the Trustee an opinion of nationally
recognized bond counsel to the effect that the release of the Project will not adversely affect the
excludability of interest on said Bonds, if applicable, from the federal gross income of the owners
thereof or affect the status of the Bonds as Tax Credit Bonds qualifying for Direct Payments.

        For purposes of this Section 7.4 the Authority may, in the Supplemental Indenture
authorizing a Series of Bonds, designate a subseries of such Series of Bonds with respect to any
discrete portion of a Project financed with such Series of Bonds and in the Master Lease or an
amendment to Master Lease provide for a separate schedule of Base Rental payments and Purchase
Option Price for such subseries. The City shall be entitled to the option to purchase such discrete
portion of a Project upon payment of the related Purchase Option Price for such portion of the
Project and compliance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.

                                          ARTICLE VIII

                                      DISCHARGE OF LIEN


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             38
        If the Authority shall pay or cause to be paid, or there shall be otherwise paid or
unconditional provisions for payment made to or for the Bondholders, the principal of and
premium, if any, and interest due or to become due on the Bonds at the times and in the manner
stipulated therein, and shall pay or cause to be paid to the Trustee and any paying agents, all
Security Instrument Issuers and all Reserve Instrument Providers all sums of money due or to
become due according to the provisions hereof and any Supplemental Indenture (including any
make whole interest payment or redemption premiums), then these presents and the estate and
rights hereby granted shall cease, terminate and be void, whereupon the Trustee shall cancel and
discharge the lien of the Indenture, and release, assign and deliver unto the Authority and the City
any and all the estate, right, title and interest in and to any and all rights assigned to the Trustee or
otherwise subject to the lien of the Indenture, including amounts in the Bond Fund and the Debt
Service Reserve Fund and all rights granted under the Security Documents, except moneys or
securities held by the Trustee for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest
on the Bonds.

        Any Bond shall be deemed to be paid within the meaning of this Article and for all purposes
of the Indenture when (a) payment of the principal of and the applicable redemption premium, if
any, on such Bond, plus interest thereon to the due date thereof (whether such due date be by
reason of maturity or upon redemption as provided in the Indenture, or otherwise), either (i) shall
have been made or caused to be made in accordance with the terms thereof, or (ii) shall have been
provided by irrevocably depositing with or for the benefit of the Trustee, in trust, and the Trustee
shall have irrevocably set aside exclusively for such payment, (1) moneys sufficient to make such
payment, and/or (2) Direct Obligations maturing as to principal and interest in such amount and at
such times as will insure, without reinvestment, the availability of sufficient moneys to make such
payment as verified by a Certified Public Accountant, and (b) all necessary and proper fees,
compensation and expenses of the Trustee and any paying agents pertaining to the Bonds with
respect to which such deposit is made shall have been paid or the payment thereof provided for to
the satisfaction of the Trustee. At such time as a Bond shall be deemed to be paid hereunder, as
aforesaid, it shall no longer be secured by or entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, except for
the purposes of any such payment from such moneys or Direct Obligations.

        Notwithstanding the foregoing, no deposit under clause (a)(ii) of the immediately
preceding paragraph shall be deemed a payment of such Bonds as aforesaid until: (a) proper notice
of redemption of such Bonds shall have been previously given in accordance with Article III of
this General Indenture, or in the event said Bonds are not by their terms subject to redemption
within the next succeeding sixty days, until the Authority shall have given the Trustee, in form
satisfactory to the Trustee, irrevocable instructions to notify, as soon as practicable, the
Bondholders of the Bonds, in accordance with Article III hereof, that the deposit required by (a)(ii)
above has been made with or for the benefit of the Trustee and that said Bonds are deemed to have
been paid in accordance with this Article VIII, and stating such maturity or redemption date upon
which moneys are to be available for the payment of the principal or redemption price, if
applicable, on said Bonds and to call for redemption pursuant to the Indenture any Bonds to be
redeemed prior to maturity; or (b) the maturity of such Bonds.

       All moneys so deposited with or for the benefit of the Trustee as provided in this Article
VIII may at the direction of the Authority also be invested and reinvested in Direct Obligations,
maturing in the amounts and at times as hereinbefore set forth, and all income from all Direct


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                               39
Obligations pursuant to this Article VIII which is not required for the payment of the Bonds and
interest and premium, if any, thereon with respect to which such moneys shall have been so
deposited, shall be deposited in the Bond Fund as and when realized and collected for use and
application as are other moneys deposited in that fund.

        The Authority hereby covenants that no deposit will be made hereunder and no use made
of any such deposit which would cause the Tax-Exempt Bonds to be treated as arbitrage bonds
within the meaning of Section 148 of the Code.

       Notwithstanding any provision of any other Article of the Indenture which may be contrary
to the provisions of this Article, all moneys or Direct Obligations set aside and held in trust
pursuant to the provisions of this Article VIII for the payment of Bonds (including interest and
premium thereon, if any) shall be applied to and used solely for the payment of the particular
Bonds (including interest and premium thereof, if any) with respect to which such moneys and
Direct Obligations have been so set aside in trust.

                                             ARTICLE IX

   DEFAULT PROVISIONS AND REMEDIES OF THE TRUSTEE AND BONDHOLDERS

       Section 9.1 Events of Default. If any of the following events occur, it is hereby declared
to constitute an “Event of Default” under this Indenture:

                  (a)   Failure to pay when due interest on any Bond;

                (b)     Failure to pay when due the principal of, or premium, if any, on any Bond,
         whether at the stated maturity thereof, or upon proceedings for redemption thereof (other
         than the event contemplated in Section 3.4(d) herein, which shall not be an Event of
         Default);

                  (c)   Failure to perform or observe any other of the covenants, agreements or
         conditions on the part of the Authority contained in the Indenture or in the Bonds and
         failure to remedy the same after notice thereof pursuant to Section 9.13 hereof;

               (d)  The occurrence of an event of default under the terms of any of the other
         Bond Documents on the part of either the Authority or the City;

                 (e)    The Authority shall for any reason be rendered incapable of fulfilling its
         obligations hereunder;

                 (f)     The Authority (1) is adjudged insolvent by a court of competent jurisdiction,
         (2) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, (3) files a
         petition in bankruptcy, (4) makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or (5) consents
         to the appointment of a receiver of itself or property with respect to the Projects;

                 (g)     An order, judgment or decree shall be entered by any court of competent
         jurisdiction appointing, without the consent of the Authority, a receiver of the Authority or



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              40
         of the property with respect to the Projects, and such order, judgment or decree shall not
         be vacated or set aside or stayed within sixty days from the date of such appointment;

                 (h)    A court of competent jurisdiction shall enter an order, judgment or decree
         approving a petition filed against the Authority under the provisions of any bankruptcy act
         and such order, judgment or decree shall not be vacated or set aside or stayed within sixty
         days from the date of entry of such order, judgment or decree;

                 (i)    Under the provisions of any other law now or hereafter existing for the relief
         or aid of debtors, any court of competent jurisdiction shall assume custody or control of
         the Authority or of the property with respect to the Projects or any part thereof, and such
         custody or control shall not be terminated within sixty days from the date of assumption of
         such custody or control; or

                (j)     Subject to the limitations contained in the Master Lease, the Authority shall
         unreasonably delay or fail to carry on with reasonable dispatch, or shall discontinue
         construction of any substantial part of a Project.

        Section 9.2 Acceleration, Limitation on Remedies. Upon the occurrence and
continuation of an Event of Default, the Trustee shall (subject to (a) the applicable provisions of
the related Supplemental Indenture and (b) the rights of any Security Instrument Issuer contained
in a Supplemental Indenture) have all the rights and remedies with respect to the Trust Estate as
the Authority, as lessor, has against the Projects and the City under the pertinent provisions of the
Master Lease; and the Trustee may, and upon the written request of Bondholders of not less than
25% in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds Outstanding shall, by notice in writing delivered
to the Authority, declare the principal of all Bonds then Outstanding and the interest accrued
thereon immediately due and payable, and such principal and interest shall thereupon become and
be immediately due and payable without further action. Such amounts of principal and interest
shall bear interest from the date of acceleration, as herein provided, until paid at the same rate
borne by the accelerated Bonds prior to acceleration.

       Upon any sale made either under the power of sale given in this Article IX or given in the
Security Documents or under a judgment, order or decree made in any judicial proceedings for the
foreclosure or enforcement of this Indenture and/or the Security Documents, the principal of all
Bonds then outstanding, if not previously due, shall at once become and be immediately due and
payable without declaration or notice by the Trustee or the Bondholders.

         Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Indenture, no deficiency
judgment upon foreclosure of the lien of the Indenture or of the Security Documents against the
Projects may be entered against the City or the Authority, and no breach of any provision of the
Master Lease, the Security Documents or this Indenture shall impose any general obligation or
liability upon or a charge against the City or the Authority or upon the general credit or taxing
powers of the City. Additionally, no judgment requiring a payment of money may be entered
against the City by reason of an Event of Default or an Event of Nonappropriation under the Master
Lease; provided to the extent permitted by law that the Trustee may, subject to compliance with
the applicable provisions of the “one action rule” set forth in Title 78B, Chapter 6, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, as amended, recover from the City (a) the portion of Base Rentals and Additional


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              41
Rentals (including amounts owed to any Security Instrument Issuer and any Reserve Instrument
Provider) which are or would otherwise have been payable under the Master Lease during any
period in which the City continues to use, occupy and operate a Project or Projects or any portion
thereof; and (b) Base Rentals and Additional Rentals which are or would otherwise have been
payable by the City under the Master Lease during the remainder, after the City vacates the
applicable Project or Projects, of the then current annual term of the Master Lease in which such
Event of Default occurs for which term the City had lawfully appropriated moneys for purposes
of paying such Base Rentals and Additional Rentals; provided, however, that the Authority shall
be obligated to the City to use its best efforts to lease or sublease the Project or Projects for the
remainder of such annual term, and the Net Proceeds of such leasing shall be offset against the
amount recoverable from the City under this clause (b).

        Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the rights and privileges of the
Trustee and the Bondholders are subject to the right of the City to purchase the Project or Projects
as set forth in the Master Lease and the Trustee shall make no final sale or other final disposition
of any interest in said Project or Projects pursuant to any available foreclosure remedy without
notifying the City in writing of the occurrence of an Event of Default, and allowing the City ninety
days from the mailing of such notice to exercise its option and purchase the Project or Projects.

        Section 9.3 Surrender of Possession of Projects; Rights and Duties of Trustee in
Possession. Subject to Section 9.2 hereof, upon the occurrence and continuation of an Event of
Default under the Indenture, the Authority, upon demand of the Trustee, shall forthwith surrender
possession of the Projects, and it shall be lawful for the Trustee, by such officer or agent as it may
appoint, to take possession of all or any part of the Projects together with the books, papers and
accounts of the Authority pertaining thereto, and including the rights and the position of the
Authority with respect to the Projects under the Master Lease and to make all needful repairs and
improvements as the Trustee shall deem wise. Upon the occurrence and continuation of an Event
of Default, the Trustee may execute a written notice of default and an election to cause the
Authority’s interest in the Projects or any portion thereof to be sold (subject to any reversionary
rights of the City which may be retained in the Project site or sites in the event any ground lease
may be executed between the Authority and the City) to satisfy the obligations of the Authority
under the Indenture in accordance with the provisions of the Security Documents and/or may cause
a sale of personal property as provided by law. The Trustee may also lease or otherwise dispose
of the Authority’s interest in the Projects in the name and for the account of the Authority and in
such manner as the Trustee, in its sole discretion, may elect. In connection with any such sale or
leasing of the Projects, the Trustee may collect, receive and sequester the rental payments,
revenues, earnings, income, products and profits therefrom, and out of the same and any moneys
received from any receiver pay, or set up the proper reserve for the payment of, all proper costs
and expenses of so taking, holding, leasing, selling and managing the same, including reasonable
compensation to the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any charges of the Trustee hereunder, and
any taxes and assessments and other charges prior to the lien of the Indenture and the Security
Documents which the Trustee may deem it wise to pay, and all expenses of such repairs and
improvements, and apply the remainder of the moneys so received in accordance with the
provisions of Section 9.8 hereof. Whenever all that is due upon the Bonds and all other obligations
secured hereby shall have been paid and all defaults made, cured or waived, the Trustee shall
surrender whatever possession the Trustee shall retain to the Authority; the same right of entry,
however, to exist upon any subsequent Event of Default.


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             42
        While in possession of such property the Trustee shall render annually to the Authority and
the City and, at the request and at the expense of any Bondholder, at its address set forth in the
registration book required by Section 4.6 hereof, a summarized statement of income and
expenditures in connection therewith.

        While any Bonds are Outstanding, the Authority shall not exercise any of the remedies on
default specified in the Master Lease without the prior written consent of the Trustee and any
Security Instrument Issuer.

        Section 9.4 Other Remedies; Rights of Bondholders. Except as otherwise limited by
the provisions of the Indenture and subject to the rights of any Security Instrument Issuer, upon
the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Indenture, the Trustee may, upon being
satisfactorily indemnified, pursue any available remedy that it deems to be in the best interest of
the Bondholders by suit at law or in equity to enforce the payment of the principal of and premium,
if any, and interest on the Bonds then Outstanding.

        Subject to Section 9.5, if an Event of Default shall have occurred under the Indenture, and
if requested so to do by the Bondholders of 25% in aggregate principal amount of Bonds then
Outstanding and indemnified as provided in Section 10.1 hereof, the Trustee shall be obligated to
exercise such one or more of the rights and powers conferred by this Section 9.4 and by Section
9.2 hereof, as the Trustee, being advised by counsel, shall deem most expedient in the interests of
the Bondholders.

        No remedy by the terms of the Indenture conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee (or the
Bondholders) is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy, but each and every such remedy
shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy given to the Trustee or to the
Bondholders hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity.

       No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default or Event of
Default under the Indenture shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a
waiver of any such default or Event of Default or acquiescence therein; and such right and power
may be exercised from time to time as often as may be deemed expedient. Every power or remedy
given by the Indenture, the Master Lease or the Security Documents or to which the Trustee may
be otherwise entitled, may be exercised, concurrently or independently, from time to time and as
often as may be deemed expedient by the Trustee, and the Trustee may pursue inconsistent
remedies.

       No waiver of any default or Event of Default hereunder, whether by the Trustee or by the
Bondholders, shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or Event of Default or shall
impair any rights or remedies consequent thereon.

        Notwithstanding anything contained herein or in the Security Documents to the contrary,
upon the occurrence and continuance of an Event of Default, before taking any foreclosure action
or any action which may subject the Trustee to liability under any Environmental Law, the Trustee
may require that a satisfactory indemnity bond, indemnity or environmental impairment insurance
be furnished for the payment or reimbursement of all expenses to which it may be put and to protect
it against all liability resulting from any claims, judgments, damages, losses, penalties, fines,



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                            43
liabilities (including strict liability) and expenses which may result from such foreclosure or other
action. The term “Environmental Law” shall mean all federal, state and local environmental, land
use, zoning, health, chemical use, safety and sanitation laws, statutes, ordinances and codes
relating to the protection of the environment or governing the use, storage, treatment, generation,
transportation, processing, handling, production or disposal of Hazardous Substances and the rules,
regulations, policies, guidelines, interpretations, decisions, orders and directives of federal, state
and local governmental agencies and authorities with respect thereto. The term “Hazardous
Substances” shall mean any chemical, substance or material classified or designated as hazardous,
toxic or radioactive, or other similar term, and now or hereafter regulated under any Environmental
Law, including without limitation, asbestos, petroleum and hydrocarbon products. If the approval
of a government regulator shall be a condition precedent to taking any foreclosure action, then the
Trustee shall not be required to take such action until such approval is obtained.

         Section 9.5 Right of Bondholders to Direct Proceedings. Except as otherwise provided
by Supplemental Indenture, the Bondholders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the
Bonds then Outstanding shall have the right, at any time, by an instrument or instruments in writing
executed and delivered to the Trustee, to direct the method and place of conducting all proceedings
to be taken in connection with the enforcement of the terms and conditions of the Indenture, or for
the appointment of a receiver or any other proceedings hereunder; provided that such direction
shall not be otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of law and of the Indenture and such
bondholders have provided the Trustee indemnification as it is provided in Article X. Unless
indemnified therefore, the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any direction of
Bondholders that in the sole discretion of the Trustee would be unjustly prejudicial to the Trustee
or to Bondholders not parties to such direction, that would expose the Trustee to unreasonable
liability or financial exposure or that is not in accordance with law or the provisions of this
Indenture, shall be entitled to rely without further investigation or inquiry upon any direction given
by the Owners of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds Outstanding, and shall
not be responsible for the propriety of or liable for the consequences of following any such
direction. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, unless indemnified therefor,
the Trustee shall not be required to foreclose the lien of the Security Documents or bid on behalf
of Bondholders at any foreclosure sale (a) if, in the Trustee’s sole discretion, such action would
subject the Trustee to personal liability for the cost of investigation, removal and/or other remedial
activity with respect to Hazardous Substances or (b) if the presence of Hazardous Substances on
the property subject to the lien of the Security Documents results in such property having no or
nominal value. It is acknowledged and agreed that the Trustee has no authority to manage, own or
operate the Project, or any portion thereof, except as necessary to exercise remedies upon default.

        Section 9.6 Appointment of Receivers. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default
under the Indenture and upon the filing of a suit or other commencement of judicial proceedings
to enforce the rights of the Trustee and of the Bondholders under the Indenture, the Trustee shall
be entitled to the appointment of a receiver or receivers of the Trust Estate and of the rents,
revenues, earnings, income, products and profits thereof, pending such proceedings, with such
powers as the court making such appointment shall confer.

        Section 9.7 Waiver. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Indenture,
to the extent that such rights may then lawfully be waived, neither the Authority, nor anyone
claiming through or under it, shall set up, claim or seek to take advantage of any appraisement,


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             44
valuation, stay, extension or redemption laws now or hereafter in force, in order to prevent or
hinder the enforcement of the Indenture, and the Authority, for itself and all who may claim
through or under it, hereby waives, to the extent that it lawfully may do so, the benefit of all such
laws.

         Section 9.8 Application of Moneys. All moneys received by the Trustee pursuant to
any right given or action taken under the provisions of this Article shall, after payment of the costs
and expenses of the proceedings resulting in the collection of such moneys and of the expenses,
liabilities and advances incurred or made by the Trustee, including any Trustee fees and the fees
and expenses of its counsel, be deposited in the Bond Fund and all moneys in the Bond Fund
(except as otherwise provided herein or in a Supplemental Indenture) shall be applied as follows:

                (a)    Unless the principal of all the Bonds shall have become or shall have been
         declared due and payable, all such moneys shall be applied:

                 FIRST-To the payment to the persons entitled thereto of all installments of interest
         then due on the Bonds, in the order of the maturity of the installments of such interest and,
         if the amount available shall not be sufficient to pay in full any particular installment, then
         to the payment ratably, according to the amounts due on such installment, to the persons
         entitled thereto, without any discrimination or privilege; and

                 SECOND-To the payment to the persons entitled thereto of the unpaid principal of
         and premium, if any, on any of the Bonds which shall have become due (other than Bonds
         matured or called for redemption for the payment of which moneys are held pursuant to
         the provisions of the Indenture), in the order of their due dates, with interest on such Bonds
         from the respective dates upon which they became due (with interest on overdue
         installments of interest, at the same rate as the rate of the respective Bond or Bonds, or rate
         as otherwise specified in the applicable Supplemental Indenture, which are past due) and,
         if the amount available shall not be sufficient to pay in full Bonds due on any particular
         date, together with such interest, then to the payment ratably, according to the amount of
         principal due on such date, to the persons entitled thereto without any discrimination or
         privilege; and

                 THIRD-To be held for the payment of the persons entitled thereto as the same shall
         become due of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds which may
         thereafter become due either at maturity or upon call for redemption prior to maturity and,
         if the amount available shall not be sufficient to pay in full Bonds due on any particular
         date, together with interest then due and owing thereon, payment shall be made ratably
         according to the amount of principal due on such date to the persons entitled thereto without
         any discrimination or privilege.

                 (b)     If the principal of all the Bonds shall have become due or shall have been
         declared due and payable, all such moneys shall be applied to the payment of the principal
         and interest then due and unpaid upon the Bonds, without preference or priority of principal
         over interest or of interest over principal, or of any installment of interest over any other
         installment of interest, or of any Bond over any other Bond, ratably, according to the
         amounts due respectively for principal and interest, to the persons entitled thereto without


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                               45
         any discrimination or privilege, plus, to the extent permitted by law, interest on overdue
         installments of interest or principal at the same rate as the rate of the respective Bond or
         Bonds, or rate as otherwise specified in a related Supplemental Indenture which are past
         due.

                 (c)    If the principal of all the Bonds shall have been declared due and payable,
         and if such declarations shall thereafter have been rescinded and annulled under the
         provisions of this Article IX then, subject to the provisions of Section 9.8(b) hereof in the
         event that the principal of all the Bonds shall later become due or be declared due and
         payable, the moneys shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.8(a)
         hereof.

                (d)     Following the payment of amounts due with respect to the Bonds, remaining
         amounts shall be applied to the payment of all obligations then due and payable to any
         Security Instrument Issuer or Reserve Instrument Provider in connection with any Security
         Instrument or applicable Reserve Instrument, respectively.

        Whenever moneys are to be applied pursuant to the provisions of this Section 9.8, such
moneys shall be applied at such times, and from time to time, as the Trustee shall determine, having
due regard to the amount of such moneys available for application and the likelihood of additional
moneys becoming available for such application in the future. Setting aside such moneys in trust
for the proper purpose shall constitute proper application by the Trustee, and the Trustee shall have
no liability whatsoever to the Authority, to any Bondholder, or to any other person for any delay
in applying any such moneys, so long as the Trustee acts with reasonable diligence, having due
regard for the circumstances, and ultimately applies the same in accordance with the circumstances
known at the time of the application by the Trustee. Whenever the Trustee shall apply such
moneys, it shall fix the date (which shall be an Interest Payment Date unless it shall deem another
date more suitable) upon which such application is to be made and upon such date interest on the
amounts of principal to be paid on such date shall cease to accrue, provided the Trustee sends the
money to the Bondholders. The Trustee shall give such notice as it may deem appropriate of the
deposit with it of any such moneys and of the fixing of any such date and shall not be required to
make payment to the Bondholder of any Bond until such Bond shall be presented to Trustee for
appropriate endorsement or for cancellation if fully paid (unless otherwise specified by
Supplemental Indenture).

        Whenever the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on all Bonds and all Reserve
Instrument Repayment Obligations have been paid under the provisions of this Section 9.8 and all
fees, expenses and charges of the Trustee and its counsel have been paid, any balance remaining
in the Bond Fund shall be paid to the City as provided in Section 5.15 of this General Indenture as
overpayment of Base Rentals.

        Section 9.9 Remedies Vested in the Trustee. All rights of action (including the right to
file proof of claims) under the Indenture or under any of the Bonds may be enforced by the Trustee
without the possession of any of the Bonds or the production thereof in any trial or other
proceeding relating thereto and any such suit or proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be
brought in its name as the Trustee without the necessity of joining as plaintiffs or defendants any



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              46
Bondholders, and any recovery of judgment shall be for the equal and ratable benefit of the
Bondholders of the Outstanding Bonds.

        Section 9.10 Rights and Remedies of Bondholders. Unless otherwise provided by
Supplemental Indenture, no Bondholder shall have any right to institute any suit, action or
proceeding at law or in equity for the enforcement of the Indenture or for the execution of any trust
hereof or for the appointment of a receiver or any other remedy hereunder, unless a default has
occurred of which the Trustee has been notified as provided in Section 10.1(h) hereof, or of which
by said subsection it is deemed to have notice, nor unless also such default shall have become an
Event of Default under the Indenture and the Bondholders of 25% in aggregate principal amount
of Bonds then Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee and shall have offered
it reasonable opportunity either to proceed to exercise the powers hereinbefore granted or to
institute such action, suit or proceeding in their own name or names, nor unless also they have
offered to the Trustee indemnity as provided in Section 10.1(l) hereof, nor unless the Trustee shall
thereafter fail or refuse to exercise the powers hereinbefore granted, or to institute such action, suit
or proceeding in its own name; and such notification, request and offer of indemnity are hereby
declared in every case at the option of the Trustee to be conditions precedent to the execution of
the powers and trusts of the Indenture, and to any action or cause of action for the enforcement of
the Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or for any other remedy hereunder; it being
understood and intended that no one or more Bondholders shall have any right in any manner
whatsoever to affect, disturb or prejudice the lien of the Indenture by its, his, her or their action or
to enforce any right hereunder except in the manner herein provided, and that all proceedings at
law or in equity shall be instituted, had and maintained in the manner herein provided and for the
equal and ratable benefit of the Bondholders of all Bonds then Outstanding. However, nothing
contained in the Indenture shall affect or impair the right of any Bondholder to enforce the payment
of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on any Bond at and after the maturity thereof
or the redemption date established therefor, or the obligation of the Authority to pay the Bonds
issued hereunder to the respective Bondholders thereof at the time, place, from the source and in
the manner in the Bonds expressed.

       Section 9.11 Termination of Proceedings. In case the Trustee shall have proceeded to
enforce any right under the Indenture by the appointment of a receiver or otherwise, and such
proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or shall have been
determined adversely, then and in every such case the Authority, the Trustee and the Bondholders
shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder respectively, and all rights,
remedies and powers of the Trustee shall continue as if no such proceedings had been taken.

        Section 9.12 Waivers of Events of Default. The Trustee may, with the consent of all
Security Instrument Issuers and upon the written direction of Security Instrument Issuers insuring
a majority of the Bonds then Outstanding or, if some Bonds are uninsured, any combination of
Bondholders and Security Instrument Issuers representing a majority of the Bonds then
Outstanding, waive any Event of Default under the Indenture and its consequences and rescind
any declaration of maturity of the principal of the Bonds; provided, however, that there shall not
be waived (1) any Event of Default under the Indenture in the payment of the principal of any
Outstanding Bonds at the date of maturity specified therein, or (2) any Event of Default in the
payment when due of the interest on any such Bonds, unless prior to such waiver or rescission, all
arrears of interests (including interest on overdue installments of interest) or all arrears of payments


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              47
of principal when due, as the case may be, both with interest at the same rate as the rate of the
respective Bond or Bonds which are past due, and all fees and expenses of the Trustee and its
counsel, in connection with such Event of Default shall have been paid or provided for, and in
cases of any such waiver or rescission, or in case any proceeding taken by Trustee, the Security
Instrument Issuers on account of any such Event of Default shall have been discontinued or
abandoned or determined adversely, then and in every such case the Authority, the Trustee and the
Bondholders shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder respectively, but no
such waiver or rescission shall extend to any subsequent or other Event of Default, or impair any
right consequent thereon. This Section 9.12 is subject to additional stipulations as may be provided
by Supplemental Indenture.

        Section 9.13 Notice of Events of Default under Section 9.l(c); Opportunity of the
Authority and the City to Cure Such Events of Default. Anything herein to the contrary
notwithstanding and except as otherwise provided by Supplemental Indenture, no default under
Section 9.1(c) hereof shall constitute an Event of Default under the Indenture until actual notice of
such default by registered or certified mail shall be given to the Authority and the City by the
Trustee or by the Bondholders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of all Bonds
Outstanding, and the Authority and the City shall have had thirty days after receipt of such notice
to correct said default or cause said default to be corrected, and shall not have corrected said default
or caused said default to be corrected within the applicable period; provided, however, that, if said
default be such that it cannot be corrected within the applicable period, it shall not constitute an
Event of Default under the Indenture if corrective action is instituted by the Authority and the City
within the applicable period and diligently pursued, to the satisfaction of the Trustee until the
default is corrected (provided that no such grace period shall exceed 90 days unless the Security
Instrument Issuers shall have consented thereto).

        With regard to any default concerning which notice is given to the Authority and the City
under the provisions of this Section 9.13, the Authority hereby grants the City full authority for
account of the Authority to perform any covenant or obligation alleged in said notice to constitute
a default, in the name and stead of the Authority with full power to do any and all things and acts
to the same extent that the Authority could do and perform any such things and acts and with power
of substitution.

        Section 9.14 Cooperation of Authority. The Authority covenants and agrees that should
there be an Event of Default under the Master Lease with the result that the right of possession of
the Projects is returned to the Authority, the Authority shall fully cooperate with the Trustee and
with the Bondholders to fully protect the rights and security of the Bondholders and shall diligently
proceed in good faith and, if requested by the Trustee or any Bondholder, shall use its best efforts
to secure a purchaser or another lessee of the Projects so that at all times sufficient rents and other
amounts will be derived from the Projects promptly to meet and pay the principal of and premium,
if any, and interest on the Bonds as the same become due and payable, as well as to cover the cost
of all Additional Rentals with respect to the Projects required under the Master Lease. Nothing
herein shall be construed as requiring the Authority to operate the Projects or to use any funds or
revenues from any source other than the rents and other amounts derived from the Projects.

       Section 9.15 Limitation on Remedies and Acceleration During Acquisition and
Construction of Portions of Projects. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article IX or other


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              48
provisions of the Indenture, the Master Lease or of the Security Documents to the contrary, in the
event that (a)(i) a portion of the Projects (the “Completed Portion of the Projects”) financed with
a separate Series of Bonds is accepted by the City for use and occupancy under the Master Lease,
and (ii) the acquisition and construction of additional portions of the Projects (the “Uncompleted
Portion of the Projects”) financed with one or more Series of Bonds (other than the Series of Bonds
described in (i) above) have yet to be completed, and (b) an Event of Default occurs due to the
failure to complete the Uncompleted Portion of the Projects, the following limitations shall apply:

                (a)    Such Event of Default shall be limited to the Series of Bonds issued to
         finance the Uncompleted Portion of the Projects and not the Series of Bonds issued to
         finance the Completed Portion of the Projects;

                 (b)     The City shall, subject to the occurrence of an Event of Nonappropriation,
         continue to pay Base Rentals and Additional Rentals with respect to the Completed Portion
         of the Projects, and the Master Lease shall remain in full force and effect with respect to
         the Completed Portion of the Projects;

                 (c)    The Trustee shall use the amounts on deposit in the related account of the
         Debt Service Reserve Fund to pay amounts due on the Series of Bonds issued to finance
         the Uncompleted Portion of the Projects and amounts on deposit in the account of the Debt
         Service Reserve Fund relating to the Series of Bonds issued to finance the Completed
         Portion of the Projects shall not be used to pay amounts due on the Series of Bonds issued
         to finance the Uncompleted Portion of the Projects;

                 (d)    The Series of Bonds issued to finance the Completed Portion of the Projects
         shall not be accelerated or otherwise affected by the Event of Default described in this
         Section 9.15; and

                 (e)    The Trustee shall not proceed to exercise any remedies under the Indenture
         or the Security Documents relating to the Completed Portion of the Projects with respect
         to the Event of Default described in this Section 9.15.

                                             ARTICLE X

                                           THE TRUSTEE

        Section 10.1 Acceptance of Trusts. The Trustee hereby accepts the trusts imposed upon
it by the Indenture, and agrees to perform said trusts, but only upon and subject to the following
express terms and conditions:

                  (a)    The Trustee, prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default under the
         Indenture and after the curing of all Events of Default under the Indenture which may have
         occurred, undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set
         forth in the Indenture. In case an Event of Default has occurred under the Indenture (which
         has not been cured or waived), the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers
         vested in it by the Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as
         a corporate trustee would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of its own
         affairs.


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              49
        No provision of the Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its
own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that (i)
prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default and after the curing of all Events of Default which
may have occurred:

                (A)     The duties and obligations of the Trustee shall be determined solely by the
         express provisions of the Indenture, and the Trustee shall be liable only for the performance
         of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in the Indenture, and no implied
         covenant or obligation shall be read into the Indenture against the Trustee; and

                 (B)    In the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee, the Trustee may
         conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions
         expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee conforming to
         the requirements of the Indenture; but in the case of any such certificate or opinion which
         by any provision hereof is specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee
         shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the
         requirements of the Indenture;

and (ii) the Trustee shall not be liable for any other judgment made in good faith by a responsible
officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts.

                 (b)     The Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereof and perform
         any of its duties by or through attorneys, agents, receivers or employees but shall not be
         answerable for the conduct of the same appointed in accordance with the standard specified
         above, and shall be entitled to advice of counsel (including its own in-house counsel)
         concerning its duties hereunder, and may in all cases pay such reasonable compensation to
         all such attorneys, agents, receivers and employees as may reasonably be employed in
         connection with the trusts hereof. The Trustee may act upon the opinion or advice of any
         attorney (who may be the attorney or attorneys for the Authority or the City), approved by
         the Trustee in the exercise of reasonable care. The Trustee shall not be responsible for any
         loss or damage resulting from any action or inaction in good faith in reliance upon such
         opinion or advice.

                 (c)      Except for those pertaining to it, the Trustee shall not be responsible for any
         recital herein or in any official statement or in the Bonds (except with respect to the
         certificate of the Trustee endorsed on the Bonds), or for insuring the Projects or collecting
         any insurance moneys, or for the validity of the execution by the Authority of the Indenture,
         or of any supplements thereto or instruments of further assurance, or for the sufficiency of
         the security for the Bonds issued hereunder or intended to be secured hereby, or for the
         value of title of the Projects or any lien waivers with respect to the Projects; provided,
         however, that the Trustee shall not be bound to ascertain or inquire as to the performance
         or observance of any covenants, conditions or agreements on the part of the Authority or
         on the part of the City under the Master Lease in connection with the matters referred to in
         Article XIV of the Master Lease, except as hereinafter set forth; but the Trustee may require
         of the Authority or the City full information and advice as to the performance of the
         covenants, conditions and agreements aforesaid and as to the condition of the property



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                               50
         herein conveyed and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any loss suffered in connection
         with any investment of funds made by it in accordance with Article VI hereof.

                 (d)    The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use of any Bonds authenticated
         or delivered hereunder.

                 (e)     The Trustee shall be protected in acting upon any notice, request, consent,
         certificate, order, affidavit, letter, telegram or other paper or document believed to be
         genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by the proper person or persons. Any
         action taken by the Trustee pursuant to the Indenture upon the request or authority or
         consent of any person who at the time of making such request or giving such authority or
         consent is the Bondholder of any Bonds, shall be conclusive and binding upon all future
         owners of the same Bond and upon Bonds issued in exchange therefor or in place thereof.

                 (f)      As to the existence or nonexistence of any fact or as to the sufficiency or
         validity of any instrument, paper or proceeding, the Trustee shall be entitled to rely upon a
         certificate signed by the Authority Representative or the City Representative as sufficient
         evidence of the facts therein contained and prior to the occurrence of a default of which the
         Trustee has been notified as provided in Section 10.l(h) hereof, or of which by said Section
         10.l(h) it is deemed to have notice, shall also be at liberty to accept a similar certificate to
         the effect that any particular dealing, transaction or action is necessary or expedient, but
         may at its discretion secure such further evidence deemed by it to be necessary or advisable,
         but shall in no case be bound to secure the same. The Trustee may accept a certificate of
         any of the officers of the Authority who have executed the Bonds (or their successors), and
         of any member of the governing body of the City, to the effect that a resolution in the form
         therein set forth has been adopted by the Authority or the City, as the case may be, as
         conclusive evidence that such resolution has been duly adopted and is in full force and
         effect.

                 (g)    The permissive right of the Trustee to do things enumerated in the Indenture
         shall not be construed as a duty and it shall not be answerable for other than its negligence
         or willful misconduct.

                 (h)     The Trustee shall not be required to take notice or be deemed to have notice
         of any Event of Default under the Indenture except an Event of Default under Section 9.l(a)
         or 9.l(b) hereof or the failure by the Authority to cause to be made any of the payments to
         the Trustee required to be made by Article IV hereof or failure by the Authority, any
         Security Instrument Issuer or the City to file with the Trustee any document required by
         the Indenture or the Master Lease to be so filed subsequent to the issuance of the Bonds,
         unless the Trustee shall be specifically notified in writing of such default by the Authority
         or by the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of any Series of Bonds
         then Outstanding (or as otherwise provided by Supplemental Indenture), and all notices or
         other instruments required by the Indenture to be delivered to the Trustee, must, in order
         to be effective, be delivered at the principal office of the Trustee, and in the absence of
         such notice so delivered, the Trustee may conclusively assume there is no Event of Default
         except as aforesaid.



4928-1127-9713, v. 2                               51
                (i)     At any and all reasonable times the Trustee and the Bondholders, and their
         duly authorized agents, attorneys, experts, engineers, accountants and representatives, shall
         have the right fully to inspect any and all of the property herein conveyed, including all
         books and records of the Authority pertaining to the Projects and the Bonds, and to take
         such memoranda from and with regard thereto as may be desired.

                (j)     The Trustee shall not be required to give any bond or surety in respect of
         the execution of the said trusts and powers or otherwise in respect of the premises.

                 (k)    Notwithstanding anything elsewhere in the Indenture with respect to the
         authentication of any Bonds, the withdrawal of any cash or the taking of any action
         whatsoever, within the purview of the Indenture, the Trustee shall have the right, but shall
         not be required, to demand any showings, certifications, opinions, appraisals or other
         information, or corporate action or evidence thereof, in addition to that by the terms hereof
         required as a condition of such action, by the Trustee deemed desirable for the purpose of
         establishing the right of the Authority to the authentication of any Bonds, the withdrawal
         of any cash or the taking of any other action by the Trustee.

                 (l)     The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or
         powers vested in it by the Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the
         Bondholders, pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture, unless such Bondholders shall
         have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity acceptable to it against the fees, costs,
         expenses and liabilities, including fees and expenses of its counsel, which may be incurred
         therein or thereby.

                 (m)    All moneys received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied or invested
         as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received but need
         not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. Neither the Trustee
         nor any Paying Agent shall be under any liability for interest on any moneys received
         hereunder except such as may be agreed upon.

        Section 10.2 Fees, Charges and Expenses of the Trustee. The Trustee shall be entitled to
payment and reimbursement for reasonable fees for its services rendered hereunder and all
advances, counsel fees and other expenses reasonably and necessarily made or incurred by the
Trustee in connection with such services and such other compensation as may be authorized under
the Master Lease. Upon an Event of Default under the Indenture, but only upon such an Event of
Default, the Trustee shall have a first lien with right of payment, prior to payment on account of
principal of and premium, if any, and interest on any Bond, upon the Trust Estate for the foregoing
fees, charges and expenses incurred by it.

        Section 10.3 Notice to Bondholders. The Trustee shall give to the Bondholders notice of
each default hereunder known to the Trustee (or of which the Trustee is deemed to have notice by
Section 10.l(h) hereof) within fifteen (15) days after the occurrence thereof, unless such default
shall have been remedied or cured before the giving of such notice. Each such notice of default
shall be given by the Trustee by mailing written notice thereof to all Bondholders of Bonds then
outstanding whose names appear on the list of Bondholders as provided in Section 4.6 hereof.




4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              52
       Section 10.4 Intervention by the Trustee. In any judicial proceeding to which the
Authority is a party and which, in the opinion of the Trustee and its counsel, has a substantial
bearing on the interest of owners of the Bonds, the Trustee may intervene on behalf of Bondholders
and shall do so if requested in writing by the Bondholders of at least 25% of the aggregate principal
amount of Bonds then Outstanding.

        Section 10.5 Successor Trustee. Any corporation or association into which the Trustee
may be converted or merged, or with which it may be consolidated, or to which it may sell or
transfer its trust business and assets as a whole or substantially as a whole, or any corporation or
association resulting from any such conversion, sale, merger, consolidation or transfer to which it
is a party, shall be and become successor to the Trustee hereunder and vested with all of the title
to the Trust Estate and all the trusts, powers, discretions, immunities, privileges and all other
matters as was its predecessor, without the execution or filing of any instrument or any further act,
deed or conveyance on the part of any of the parties hereto, anything herein to the contrary
notwithstanding.
         Section 10.6 Resignation by the Trustee. The Trustee and any successor to the Trustee
may at any time resign from the trusts herein created by giving sixty (60) days’ written notice by
registered or certified mail to the Authority and to the Bondholders of each Bond as shown by the
list of Bondholders required by Section 4.6 hereof to be kept by the Trustee, and such resignation
shall take effect only upon the appointment of a successor Trustee by the Bondholders or by the
Authority; provided, however that if no successor Trustee has been appointed within 60 days of
the date of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent
jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee, and such court may thereupon, after such
notice, if any, as it deems proper and prescribes, appoint a successor Trustee.

        Section 10.7 Removal of the Trustee. The Trustee may be removed by the Authority at
any time, by an instrument or concurrent instruments in writing delivered to the Trustee, provided
that such instrument or instrument concurrently appoint a successor Trustee meeting the
qualifications set forth herein.

        Section 10.8 Appointment of Successor Trustee. In case the Trustee hereunder shall
resign or be removed, or be dissolved, or shall be in course of dissolution or liquidation, or
otherwise become incapable of acting hereunder, or in case it shall be taken under the control of
any public officer or officers, or of a receiver appointed by a court, a successor may be appointed
by the Authority by an instrument or concurrent instruments executed by its Chair/President and
attested by its Secretary-Treasurer under its seal (or, if an Event of Default exists, by the Registered
Owners of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Bonds then Outstanding, by an instrument
or concurrent instruments in writing signed by such Owners, or by their attorneys in fact, duly
authorized; provided, nevertheless, that in case of such vacancy the Authority by an instrument
executed by the Chair/President and attested by the Secretary-Treasurer under its seal, may appoint
a temporary Trustee to fill such vacancy until a successor Trustee shall be appointed by the
Registered Owners in the manner above provided; and any such temporary Trustee so appointed
by the Authority shall immediately and without further act be superseded by the Trustee so
appointed by such Registered Owners). The original Trustee and every such Trustee appointed
pursuant to the provisions of this Section 10.8 shall be a trust company or bank in good standing
located in or incorporated under the laws of the State duly authorized to exercise trust powers and


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              53
subject to examination by federal or state authority, having a reported capital and surplus of not
less than Seventy-Five Million Dollars ($75,000,000).

        Section 10.9 Concerning Any Successor Trustee. Every successor Trustee appointed
hereunder shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to its predecessor and also to the Authority and
the City an instrument in writing accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon such
successor, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become fully vested with all the
estates, properties, rights, powers, trusts, duties and obligations of its predecessors; but such
predecessor shall, nevertheless, on the written request of the Authority, or of its successor, execute
and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor all the estates, properties, rights, powers
and trusts of such predecessor hereunder; and every predecessor Trustee shall deliver all securities
and moneys held by it as Trustee hereunder to its successor. Should any instrument in writing from
the Authority be required by any successor Trustee for more fully and certainly vesting in such
successor the estate, rights, powers and duties hereby vested or intended to be vested in the
predecessor, any and all such instruments in writing shall, on request, be executed, acknowledged
and delivered by the Authority. The resignation of any Trustee and the instrument or instruments
removing any Trustee and appointing a successor hereunder, together with all other instruments
provided for in this Article X, shall be filed or recorded by the successor Trustee in each recording
office where the Indenture shall have been filed or recorded. Additionally, all substitutions of
Trustee under the Security Documents shall be filed or recorded in accordance with the laws of
the State.

       In the event of a change in the office of Trustee, the predecessor Trustee which has resigned
or been removed shall cease to be Trustee hereunder and Bond Registrar for the Bonds and Paying
Agent for principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds, and the successor Trustee shall
become such Trustee, Bond Registrar and Paying Agent for the Bonds.

        Section 10.10 Right of the Trustee to Pay Taxes and Other Charges. In case any tax,
assessment, governmental or other charge upon, or insurance premium with respect to, any part of
a Project or Projects is not paid as required herein or in the Master Lease or the Security
Documents, the Trustee may pay such tax, assessment, governmental or other charge, or insurance
premium, without prejudice, however, to any rights of the Trustee or the Bondholders arising in
consequence of such failure; and any amount at any time so paid under this Section 10.10, with
interest thereon from the date of payment at a rate per annum equal to the then prevailing one-
month U.S. Federal Treasury Rate as of the date of payment, but in no event less than a rate of
3.5% per annum, shall become so much additional indebtedness secured by the Indenture, and the
same shall be given a preference in payment over any of the Bonds, and shall be paid out of the
proceeds of Base Rentals or Additional Rentals collected from the Projects, if not otherwise caused
to be paid; but the Trustee shall not be under any obligation to make any such payment unless it
shall have been requested to do so by the Bondholders of at least 25% of the aggregate principal
amount of Bonds then Outstanding and shall have been provided with adequate funds for the
purpose of such payment.

        Section 10.11 Appointment of Co-Trustee. It is the purpose of the Indenture that there
shall be no violation of any law of any jurisdiction (including particularly the laws of the State)
denying or restricting the right of banking corporations or associations to transact business as the
Trustee in such jurisdiction. It is recognized that in case of litigation under the Indenture, the


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             54
Master Lease, or the Security Documents, and in particular in case of the enforcement of either
upon an Event of Default, or in case the Trustee deems that by reason of any present or future law
of any jurisdiction it may not exercise any of the powers, rights or remedies herein granted to the
Trustee or hold title to the properties, in trust, as herein granted, or take any other action which
may be desirable or necessary in connection therewith, it may be necessary that the Trustee appoint
an additional individual or institution as a separate or Co-Trustee. The following provisions of this
Section 10.11 are adapted to these ends. The Trustee may appoint an additional individual or
institution as a separate or Co-Trustee, in which event each and every remedy, power, right, claim,
demand, cause of action, immunity, estate, title, interest and lien expressed or intended by the
Indenture to be exercised by or vested in or conveyed to the Trustee with respect thereto shall be
exercisable by and vested in such separate or Co-Trustee, but only to the extent necessary to enable
such separate or Co-Trustee to exercise such powers, rights and remedies, and every covenant and
obligation necessary to the exercise thereof by such separate or Co­Trustee shall run to and be
enforceable by either of them.

        Should any deed, conveyance or instrument in writing from the Authority be required by
the separate or Co-Trustee so appointed by the Trustee for more fully and certainly vesting in and
confirming to it such properties, rights, powers, trusts, duties and obligations, any and all such
deeds, conveyances and instruments in writing shall, on request, be executed, acknowledged and
delivered by the Authority. In case any separate or Co-Trustee, or a successor to either, shall die,
become incapable of acting, resign or be removed, all the estates, properties, rights, powers, trusts,
duties and obligations of such separate or Co-Trustee, so far as permitted by law, shall vest in and
be exercised by the Trustee until the appointment of a new Trustee or successor to such separate
or Co­Trustee.

        Section 10.12 Trustee Not Responsible for Actions of Authority. The Trustee shall not be
liable or responsible because of the failure of the Authority or of any of its officers, employees or
agents to make any collections or deposits, or to perform any act herein required of the Authority
or its officers, directors, employees or agents. The Trustee shall not be responsible for the
application of any of the proceeds of the Bonds or any other moneys deposited with it and paid
out, invested, withdrawn or transferred so long as such actions were done in strict conformance in
accordance with the provisions of the Indenture. The immunities and exemptions from liability of
the Trustee hereunder shall extend to its directors, officers, employees and agents.

        Section 10.13 Trustee’s Right to Own and Deal in Bonds. The bank or trust company
acting as Trustee under the Indenture, and its directors, officers, employees or agents, may in good
faith buy, sell, own, hold and deal in any of the Bonds issued hereunder and secured by the
Indenture, and may join in any action which any Bondholder may be entitled to take with like
effect as if such bank or trust company were not the Trustee under the Indenture.

       Section 10.14 Requirements as to Trustee’s Records. So long as any of the Bonds shall
remain outstanding:

                (a)    the records of the Trustee pertaining to the Bonds and to the Trustee
         hereunder shall be available to and open for inspection at all reasonable times by the
         Bondholders (at no cost or expense to the Bondholders), the Authority, the City and all
         other governmental bodies legally entitled to inspect such records, and


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             55
                  (b)    the Trustee shall retain in its possession all financial statements furnished
         to it pursuant to the Indenture. The Trustee shall transfer to any successor trustee copies of
         the records of the Trustee pertaining to the Bonds.

        Section 10.15 Trustee’s Own Funds. No provision of the Indenture or of the Bond
Documents shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any
financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its
rights or powers, if it has reasonable grounds for believing that the repayment of such funds or
adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.

         Section 10.16 Direct Payment Authorization. (a) The Authority hereby authorizes and
directs the Trustee to take all necessary actions to effectively carry out the duties required to apply
for and accept Direct Payments from the Internal Revenue Service on behalf of the Authority under
Sections 54AA, 1400U-2, and 6431 of the Code or such other tax provisions of substantially
similar nature which may be hereafter authorized. In connection with such application and
acceptance of Direct Payments, the Authority shall provide to the Trustee (i) a copy of the executed
Form 8038-TC filed in connection with the issuance of the Bonds, (ii) an incumbency certificate
listing the officers of the Authority authorized to act on behalf of the Authority under this Indenture
and (iii) such other instruments, opinions and certificates as the Trustee may reasonably request.
Upon receipt of any Direct Payments, the Trustee shall promptly deposit such payment in the Bond
Fund for use in paying debt service on the Bonds. Failure by the Trustee to prepare or file the Form
8038-CP shall not affect any payment obligations of the Authority hereunder. The Authority
hereby authorizes and directs the Trustee to prepare and file the IRS Form 8038-CP as may be
required from time to time under the Code as are within its power and are requested by and at the
expense of the Authority and agreed to by the Trustee, to request the Direct Payments. The Form
8038-CP shall authorize the Direct Payments requested in accordance with this clause (a) to be
paid to the Trustee.

                  (b)     For fixed rate bonds, at least ninety (90) days prior to each Interest Payment
         Date with respect to the Bonds, the Trustee shall deliver to the Authority by a delivery
         method that provides the Trustee with evidence of delivery a completed Form 8038-CP,
         which is to be signed by an Authority Representative. The form and the certification shall
         be sent to the attention of an Authority Representative for the Authority’s signature. The
         Authority shall return such signed Form 8038-CP to the Trustee not later than eighty (80)
         days prior to each Interest Payment Date with respect to the Bonds, by a delivery method
         which provides the Authority with evidence of delivery. Not more than ninety (90) and not
         less than seventy (70) days prior to each Interest Payment Date for the Bonds, the Trustee
         shall file, or cause to be filed a Form 8038-CP with the Internal Revenue Service Center,
         Ogden, Utah 84201, or any successor location specified by the Internal Revenue Service,
         or take such other or additional actions as may be required from time to time under the
         Code as are within its power and are requested by the Authority and agreed to by the
         Trustee, to request the Direct Payments with respect to such Interest Payment Date. Upon
         completion of filing, the Trustee shall deliver a copy of such Form 8038-CP to the
         Authority.

               (c)   For variable rate bonds, no more than five (5) days after the last Interest
         Payment Date within the calendar quarter period for which reimbursement is being


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                               56
         requested, the Trustee shall deliver to the Authority by a delivery method that provides the
         Trustee with evidence of delivery a completed Form 8038-CP, which is to be signed by an
         Authority Representative. The form and certification shall be sent to the attention of an
         Authority Representative. The Authority shall return such signed Form 8038-CP to the
         Trustee not later than twenty (20) days after the last Interest Payment Date within the
         calendar quarter period for which reimbursement is being requested with respect to the
         Bonds, by a delivery method which provides the Authority with evidence of delivery. Not
         more than 35 days after the last Interest Payment Date within the calendar quarter period
         for which reimbursement is being requested, the Trustee shall file or cause to be filed a
         Form 8038-CP with the Internal Revenue Service Center, Ogden, Utah 84201, or any
         successor location specified by the Internal Revenue Service, or take such other or
         additional actions as are within its power and are requested by the Authority and agreed to
         by the Trustee, to request the Direct Payments with respect to such prior Interest Payment
         Dates. Upon completion and filing, the Trustee shall deliver a copy of such Form 8038-CP
         to the Authority.

                                            ARTICLE XI

                                SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES

       Section 11.1 Supplemental Indentures Not Requiring Consent of Bondholders. The
Authority and the Trustee may (subject to the rights of any Security Instrument Issuer under any
Supplemental Indenture), without consent of, or notice to, any of the Bondholders enter into an
indenture or indentures supplemental to the Indenture which shall not be inconsistent with the
general terms and provisions hereof for any one or more of the following purposes:

                  (a)   To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in the Indenture;

                (b)     To grant to or confer upon the Trustee for the benefit of the Bondholders
         any additional rights, remedies, powers or authority that may lawfully be granted to or
         conferred upon the Bondholders or the Trustee;

                  (c)   To subject to the Indenture additional revenues, properties or collateral;

                 (d)      To modify, amend or supplement the Indenture or any indenture
         supplemental hereto in such matter as to permit the qualification hereof and thereof under
         the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, or any similar federal statute hereafter in
         effect or to permit the qualification of the Bonds for sale under the securities laws of any
         of the states of the United States of America;

                (e)    To evidence the appointment of a separate Trustee or a Co-Trustee or
         paying agent or the succession of a new Trustee or paying agent hereunder;

                (f)    To issue the Initial Bonds, Refunding Bonds or Additional Bonds in
         accordance with the Indenture and the Master Lease; and




4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             57
                (g)     To make any other change which, in the judgment of the Trustee is not
         materially adverse to the Trustee or, as evidenced by an opinion of counsel delivered to the
         Trustee, the Holders of the Bonds.

        Section 11.2 Supplemental Indentures Requiring Consent of Bondholders. Exclusive of
Supplemental Indentures covered by Section 11.1 hereof and subject to the terms and provisions
contained in this Section 11.2, and not otherwise, the Bondholders of not less than 66 2/3% in
aggregate principal amount of the Bonds then Outstanding shall have the right, from time to time,
anything contained in the Indenture to the contrary notwithstanding, to consent to and approve the
execution by the Authority and the Trustee of such Supplemental Indentures hereto as shall be
deemed necessary and desirable by the Authority for the purpose of modifying, altering, amending,
adding to or rescinding, in any particular, any of the terms or provisions contained in the Indenture
or in any Supplemental Indenture; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 11.2 or in
Section 11.1 hereof contained shall permit, or be construed as permitting, (i) an extension of the
maturity of the principal of, or the interest on, any Bond issued hereunder, or (ii) a reduction in the
principal amount of, or redemption premium on, any Bond or the rate of interest thereon, or (iii) a
privilege or priority of any Bond or Bonds over any other Bond or Bonds, or (iv) a reduction in
the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds required for consent to such Supplemental Indentures,
or (v) permit the creation of any lien ranking prior to or on a parity with the lien of the Indenture
and the Security Documents on the Trust Estate or any part thereof (except in connection with the
issuance of Refunding Bonds or Additional Bonds), or (vi) deprive the Bondholder of any Bond
then Outstanding of the lien hereby created on any material portion of the Trust Estate, without
the prior consent of the Bondholders of 100% of the Bonds affected by such action. The Trustee
may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such Supplemental Indenture which adversely
affects the Trustee’s rights, deeds or immunities under the Indenture or the Master Lease.

        If at any time the Authority shall request the Trustee to enter into any such Supplemental
Indenture for any of the purposes of this Section 11.2, the Trustee shall, upon being satisfactorily
indemnified with respect to expenses, cause notice of the proposed execution of such Supplemental
Indenture to be given by registered or certified mail to the Bondholder of each Bond shown by the
list of Bondholders required by the terms of Section 4.6 hereof to be kept at the office of the
Trustee. Such notices shall briefly set forth the nature of the proposed Supplemental Indenture and
shall state that copies thereof are on file at the principal office of the Trustee for inspection by all
Bondholders. If the Bondholders of not less than 66 2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the
Bonds Outstanding at the time of the execution of any such Supplemental Indenture shall have
consented to and approved the execution thereof as herein provided, no Holder of any Bond shall
have any right to object to any of the terms and provisions contained therein, or the operation
thereof, or in any manner to question the propriety of the execution thereof, or to enjoin or restrain
the Trustee or the Authority from executing the same or from taking any action pursuant to the
provisions thereof. Upon the execution of any such Supplemental Indenture as in this Article XI
permitted and provided, the Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in
accordance therewith.

        Anything therein to the contrary notwithstanding, so long as no Event of Default or Event
of Nonappropriation with respect to the Projects shall have occurred and be continuing under the
Master Lease, a Supplemental Indenture under this Article shall not become effective unless and
until the City shall have consented to the execution and delivery of such Supplemental Indenture.


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              58
In this regard and except with respect to Supplemental Indentures for which the City has otherwise
been notified, the Trustee shall cause notice of the proposed execution of any such Supplemental
Indenture together with a copy of the proposed Supplemental Indenture to be mailed by certified
or registered mail to the City at least fifteen days prior to the proposed date of execution and
delivery of any such Supplemental Indenture. The City shall be deemed to have consented to the
execution and delivery of any such Supplemental Indenture if the Trustee does not receive a letter
of protest or objection thereto signed by or on behalf of the City on or before the fifteenth day after
the mailing of said notice.




4928-1127-9713, v. 2                              59
                                          ARTICLE XII

                              AMENDMENT OF MASTER LEASE

        Section 12.1 Amendments, etc., to Master Lease Not Requiring Consent of Bondholders.
The Authority and the Trustee shall without the consent of or notice to the Bondholders (subject
to the rights of any Security Instrument Issuer in a Supplemental Indenture) consent to any
amendment, change or modification of the Master Lease as may be required (i) by the provisions
of the Indenture and the Master Lease (including those provisions applicable to the issuance of the
Initial Bonds, Refunding Bonds and Additional Bonds), (ii) for the purpose of curing any
ambiguity or formal defect or omission, (iii) so as to more precisely identify the Projects, or the
Project sites or substitute or add additional improvements or equipment to the Projects or
additional rights or interests in property acquired in accordance with the provisions of the Master
Lease, or (iv) in connection with any amendment to the Indenture pursuant to Section 11.1 hereof,
or (v) in connection with any other change therein which, in the judgment of the Trustee is not
materially adverse to the Trustee or, as evidenced by an opinion of counsel delivered to the Trustee,
the Holders of the Bonds.

        Section 12.2 Amendments, etc., to the Master Lease Requiring Consent of Holders of the
Bonds. Except for the amendments, changes or modifications as provided in Section 12.1 hereof,
neither the Authority nor the Trustee shall consent to any other amendment, change or modification
of the Master Lease without mailing of notice and receipt of the written approval or consent of the
Holders of not less than 66 2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds at the time
outstanding given as in this Section 12.2 provided and the consent of any Security Instrument
Provider as provided in any Supplemental Indenture. If at any time the Authority and the City shall
request the consent of the Trustee to any such proposed amendment, change or modification of the
Master Lease, the Trustee shall, upon being satisfactorily indemnified with respect to expenses,
cause notice of such proposed amendment, change or modification to be given in the same manner
as provided by Section 11.2 of the Indenture with respect to Supplemental Indentures. Such notice
shall briefly set forth the nature of such proposed amendment, change or modification and shall
state that copies of the instrument embodying the same are on file at the principal office of Trustee
for inspection by all Holders of the Bonds. No such amendment, change or modification of the
Master Lease shall reduce the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds the Bondholders of which
are required to consent to any amendment, change or modification of such Master Lease, or
materially reduce or postpone payments required to be made under the Master Lease without the
consent of all of the Holders of the Bonds Outstanding. Approval or consent shall be evidenced in
a manner acceptable to the Trustee and the Authority.

                                          ARTICLE XIII

                                       MISCELLANEOUS

        Section 13.1 Consents, etc. of Bondholders. Any consent, request, direction, approval,
objection or other instrument required by the Indenture to be signed and executed by the
Bondholders may be in any number of concurrent documents and may be executed by such


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             60
Bondholders in person or by agent appointed in writing. Proof of the execution of any such consent,
request, direction, approval, objection or other instrument or of the writing appointing any such
agent and of the ownership of Bonds, if made in the following manner, shall be sufficient for any
of the purposes of the Indenture, and shall be conclusive in favor of the Trustee with regard to any
action taken by it under such request or other instrument, namely:

                (a)     The fact and date of the execution by any person of any such writing may
         be proved by the certificate of any officer in any jurisdiction who by law has power to take
         acknowledgments within such jurisdiction that the person signing such writing
         acknowledged before him the execution thereof, or by an affidavit of any witness to such
         execution.

                 (b)     The fact of ownership of Bonds and the amount or amounts, numbers and
         other identification of such Bonds, and the date of holding the same, shall be proved by the
         registration books of the Authority maintained by the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.6 of
         the Indenture.

       Section 13.2 Limitation of Rights. With the exception of any rights herein expressly
conferred, nothing expressed or mentioned in or to be implied from the Indenture or the Bonds is
intended or shall be construed to give to any person or company other than the parties hereto, any
Security Instrument Provider, any Reserve Provider, and the Holders of the Bonds, any legal or
equitable right, remedy or claim under or with respect to the Indenture or any covenants, conditions
and provisions herein contained; the Indenture and all of the covenants, conditions and provisions
hereof being intended to be and being for the sole and exclusive benefit of the parties hereto, the
City, any security Instrument Provider, any Reserve Provider and the Bondholders as herein
provided.

        Section 13.3 Severability. If any provision of the Indenture shall be held or deemed to
be or shall, in fact, be illegal, inoperative or unenforceable, the same shall not affect any other
provision or provisions herein contained or render the same invalid, inoperative or unenforceable
to any extent whatsoever.

        Section 13.4 Notices. Any notice, request, complaint, demand, communication or other
paper shall be sufficiently given and shall be deemed given when delivered or mailed by registered
or certified mail, postage prepaid, or sent by facsimile addressed as follows: If to the Authority, to
the Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, 4580 S. 2300 E., Holladay, Utah,
84025,        Attention:         Chair/President;       if        to       the       Trustee,       to
___________________________________________, [Trustee Address], Attention: Corporate
Trust Department; if to the City, 4580 S. 2300 E., Holladay, Utah, 84025, Attention: Mayor. A
duplicate copy of each notice required to be given hereunder by the Trustee to either the Authority
or the City shall also be given to the others. The Authority, the City, and the Trustee may designate
any further or different addresses to which subsequent notices, certificates or other
communications shall be sent.

        Section 13.5 Payments Due on Days other than Business Days. In any case where the
date of maturity of interest on or principal of the Bonds or the date fixed for redemption of any
Bonds shall be other than a Business Day, then payment of principal and premium, if any, or


4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             61
interest need not be made on such date but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day
with the same force and effect as if made on the date of maturity or the date fixed for redemption,
and no interest shall accrue for the period after such date, provided that payment is received by the
Holders of the Bonds on such next succeeding Business Day.

        Section 13.6 Counterparts. This General Indenture may be simultaneously executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which shall constitute but one
and the same instrument.

       Section 13.7 Applicable Provisions of Law. The Indenture shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the laws of the State.




4928-1127-9713, v. 2                             62
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Authority has caused these presents to be signed in its
corporate name and with its official seal hereunto affixed and attested by its duly authorized
officers, and to evidence its acceptance of the trust hereby created, the Trustee has caused these
presents to be executed in its corporate name by its duly authorized officers, as of the date first
above written.

                                             LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF
                                             THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH


(SEAL)
                                             By: ________________________________
                                                         Chair/President


ATTEST AND COUNTERSIGN:



By: _________________________________
           Secretary-Treasurer

                                             __________________________________________
                                             _, as Trustee



                                             By: ________________________________

                                             Title: Vice President




4920-9603-9243                           S-1
                             GENERAL INDENTURE OF TRUST
                       FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE OF TRUST


                                    Dated as of _______, 2025


                                             between


           LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH


                                               and


                                           [TRUSTEE]



              Supplementing the General Indenture of Trust Dated as of _______, 2025




4909-8256-3425, v. 3
                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS


ARTICLE I SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE; DEFINITIONS ...................................................2

Section 1.1       Supplemental Indenture. ..........................................................................................3
Section 1.2       Uniform Definitions. ................................................................................................3
Section 1.3       Amended Definitions. ..............................................................................................3
Section 1.4       Additional Definitions. ............................................................................................3

ARTICLE II ISSUANCE OF THE SERIES 2025 BONDS............................................................5

Section 2.1       Principal Amount, Designation and Series. .............................................................5
Section 2.2       Date, Maturity and Interest Rates. ...........................................................................5
Section 2.3       Redemption. .............................................................................................................6
Section 2.4       Execution of Bonds. .................................................................................................8
Section 2.5       Delivery of Bonds. ...................................................................................................8
Section 2.6       Limited Obligation. ..................................................................................................8
Section 2.7       Series 2025 Bonds to Remain Tax-Exempt. ............................................................8
Section 2.8       Record of Payment. ..................................................................................................8
Section 2.9       Book-Entry Only System. ........................................................................................9

ARTICLE III FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS ...................................................................................11

Section 3.1       Creation of Series 2025 Accounts..........................................................................11
Section 3.2       Disbursement of Series 2025 Bond Proceeds. .......................................................11
Section 3.3       Costs of Issuance Account; Payment of Costs of Issuing Series 2025 Bonds. ......11
Section 3.4       Series 2025 Debt Service Reserve Requirement. ..................................................12
Section 3.5       Deposit to and Use of Series 2025 Account of Construction Fund. ......................12
Section 3.6       Series 2025 Bonds as Initial Bonds. ......................................................................12

ARTICLE IV CONFIRMATION OF GENERAL INDENTURE ................................................12

Section 4.1       Confirmation of General Indenture. .......................................................................12

ARTICLE V MISCELLANEOUS ................................................................................................13

Section 5.1       Confirmation of Sale of Series 2025 Bonds. .........................................................13
Section 5.2       Illegal, etc. Provisions Disregarded. ......................................................................13
Section 5.3       Applicable Law. .....................................................................................................13
Section 5.4       Headings for Convenience Only. ...........................................................................13
Section 5.5       Counterparts. ..........................................................................................................13

EXHIBIT A FORM OF SERIES 2025 BONDS ....................................................................... A-1

EXHIBIT B COST OF ISSUANCE DISBURSEMENT REQUEST ........................................B-1




4909-8256-3425, v. 3                                          i
        This FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE OF TRUST, dated as of _______, 2025 (the
“First Supplemental Indenture”), by and between the LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE
CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH, a nonprofit corporation duly organized and existing under the
laws of the State of Utah (the “Authority”), and [TRUSTEE], a national banking association duly
organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, authorized by law to accept
and execute trusts and having its principal office in Salt Lake City, Utah (the “Trustee”),

                                      W I TN E S S E T H:

      WHEREAS, the Authority has entered into a General Indenture of Trust, dated as of
_______, 2025 (the “General Indenture”) with the Trustee; and

        WHEREAS, the City of Holladay, Utah (the “City”) has previously authorized and directed
the creation of the Authority; and

        WHEREAS, the Authority has been duly and regularly created, established and is
organized and existing as a nonprofit corporation under and by virtue of the provisions of the laws
of the State of Utah, including, in particular, the provisions of the Local Building Authority Act,
Title 17D, Chapter 2, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended (the “Building Authority Act”), and
the Utah Revised Nonprofit Corporation Act, Title 16, Chapter 6a, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as
amended (the “Nonprofit Corporation Act”); and; and

       WHEREAS, under the Articles of Incorporation of the Authority (the “Articles”) and the
Act (hereinafter defined), the objects and purposes for which the Authority has been founded and
incorporated are to acquire, improve or extend one or more projects and to finance their costs on
behalf of the City in accordance with the procedures and subject to the limitations of the Local
Building Authority Act and the Local Government Bonding Act, Title 11, Chapter 14, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, as amended (the “Local Government Bonding Act and together with the Building
Authority Act and the Nonprofit Corporation Act, the “Act”) in order to accomplish the public
purposes for which the City exists; and

        WHEREAS, the Authority is possessed under the Articles with all powers set forth in the
Act and the Constitution and other laws of the State of Utah, including, without limitation, the
power to acquire, own, hold, lease and improve real and personal property, and to enter into
agreements providing for a lease, mortgage or other conveyance of real and personal property and
to issue its notes, bonds or other obligations; and

        WHEREAS, at the request of the City, the Authority desires to issue bonds for the purpose
of financing all or a portion of the costs of (i) the acquisition and construction of a park and
recreation facility and all related improvements and (ii) the renovation, retrofit and improvements
of a city hall, including seismic upgrades and related improvements (the “Series 2025 Project”),
as provided in the Act; and

       WHEREAS, in order to (i) finance the Series 2025 Project and (ii) pay costs of issuance of
the Series 2025 Bonds (hereinafter defined), the Authority has determined to issue its Lease
Revenue Bonds, Series 2025, in the aggregate principal amount of $[PAR] (the “Series 2025
Bonds”); and



4909-8256-3425, v. 3                            1
        WHEREAS, the City is the owner of fee simple title to the site whereon the Series 2025
Project will be located (the “Project Site”) and has agreed to lease such Project Site to the Authority
pursuant to a Ground Lease Agreement dated as of _______, 2025 (the “Ground Lease”); and

       WHEREAS, the Series 2025 Bonds will be authorized, issued and secured under the
General Indenture, as amended and supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture (together
with the General Indenture, and any amendments thereto or hereto, the “Indenture”); and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to a Master Lease Agreement dated as of _______, 2025 (the
“Master Lease”), between the Authority and the City, the City, as lessee, has leased the Series
2025 Project from the Authority, as lessor, on an annually renewable basis; and

       WHEREAS, under the provisions of a resolution adopted by the City Council of the City
on _______, 2025 (the “City Resolution”), the City has authorized and approved the execution of
the Master Lease and has authorized and approved certain actions to be taken by the Authority in
connection with the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds, including the execution, delivery and
performance of the General Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture; and

        WHEREAS, under the provisions of a resolution adopted on September 18, 2025 (the
“Authority Resolution”), the Board of Trustees of the Authority (the “Governing Board”) has
authorized, approved and directed the execution of the Master Lease, the General Indenture and
this First Supplemental Indenture and has authorized and approved certain actions to be taken by
the Authority in connection with the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds hereunder; and

       WHEREAS, [UNDERWRITER] (the “Underwriter”) has offered to purchase the Series
2025 Bonds in accordance with the terms and conditions of a Purchase Contract dated ______,
2025 (the “Purchase Contract”), by and among the Authority, the City, and the Underwriter; and

       WHEREAS, the Authority desires to sell the Series 2025 Bonds to the Underwriter in
accordance with the terms and condition of the Purchase Contract; and

        WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of the Series 2025 Bonds and of this First
Supplemental Indenture have in all respects been duly authorized and all things necessary to make
the Series 2025 Bonds, when executed by the Authority and authenticated by the Trustee, the valid
and binding legal obligations of the Authority and to make the General Indenture, as amended and
supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture, a valid assignment and pledge of the amounts
pledged to the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Series 2025
Bonds and a valid assignment of the rights of the Authority with respect to the Series 2025 Project
under the Master Lease (except the rights of the Authority under Sections 6.3(d), 6.3(j), 13.3 and
14.5 of the Master Lease) have been done and performed.

       NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises and the mutual promises
and covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:


                                            ARTICLE I

                        SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE; DEFINITIONS


4909-8256-3425, v. 3                              2
       Section 1.1 Supplemental Indenture.           This First Supplemental Indenture is
supplemental to and is adopted in accordance with and pursuant to Articles II and XI of the General
Indenture.

        Section 1.2 Uniform Definitions. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise and
except as otherwise defined in Section 1.3 hereof, all terms used herein shall have the meanings
set forth in Article I of the General Indenture and Article I of this First Supplemental Indenture,
and Article I of the Master Lease.

       Section 1.3 Amended Definitions. The following definitions contained in Article I of
the General Indenture are hereby amended to read as follows:

      “Interest Payment Date” means with respect to the Series 2025 Bonds, each _______ and
_______, commencing _______, 20__.

       Section 1.4 Additional Definitions. Defined terms used in the preambles to this First
Supplemental Indenture shall have the meanings given to such terms therein. In addition, for
purposes of the General Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture and the Master Lease, the
following terms shall, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, have the meanings as follows:

       “Assignment of Ground Lease Agreement” means the agreement dated as of _______,
2025, by and between the Authority and the Trustee.

      “Bond Purchase Contract means the Bond Purchase Contract dated _______, 20__, by and
among the Authority, the City and the Underwriter.

      “Cede” means Cede & Co. and any substitute nominee of DTC who becomes the registered
Bondholder.

         “Debt Service Reserve Requirement” means, with respect to the Series 2025 Bonds, [$0].

      “First Supplemental Indenture” means this First Supplemental Indenture dated as of
_______, 2025, between the Authority and the Trustee.

      “Deed of Trust” means the Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security
Agreement dated as of _______, 2025 by and between the Authority and the Trustee.

        “DTC” means The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, a limited purpose
trust company organized under the laws of the State of New York.

        “Original Issue Date” means with respect to the Series 2025 Bonds, _______, 20__, the
date the Series 2025 Bonds are initially issued.

      “Register” means the record of ownership of the Series 2025 Bonds maintained by the
Bond Registrar.

      “Security Documents” means collectively (i) the Deed of Trust and (ii) the Assignment of
Ground Lease Agreement.


4909-8256-3425, v. 3                            3
          “Series 2025 Cost of Issuance Account” means the account established in Section 3.1
herein.

       “Series 2025 Bonds” means the Authority’s Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025, issued in
the aggregate principal amount of $[PAR] herein authorized.

       “Series 2025 Ground Lease” means the Ground Lease Agreement, dated as of _______,
2025 by and between the City and the Authority pursuant to which the City will lease the site on
which the Series 2025 Project will be constructed.

         “Series 2025 Project” means the acquisition and construction of a park and recreation
facility and all related improvements and the renovation, retrofit and improvements of a city hall,
including seismic upgrades and related improvements

          “Underwriter” means [UNDERWRITER].




4909-8256-3425, v. 3                            4
                                           ARTICLE II

                            ISSUANCE OF THE SERIES 2025 BONDS

        Section 2.1 Principal Amount, Designation and Series. The Series 2025 Bonds are
hereby authorized for issuance under the Indenture for the purpose of providing funds to (i) pay
the costs of the Series 2025 Project and (ii) pay costs of issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds. The
Series 2025 Bonds shall be limited to $[PAR] in aggregate principal amount, shall be issued in
fully registered form, and shall be in substantially the form and contain substantially the terms
contained in Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof, and shall bear interest at the rates
and be payable as to principal or redemption price as specified herein. The Series 2025 Bonds shall
be designated as, and shall be distinguished from the Bonds of all other series by the title, “Local
Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025.”

        Section 2.2 Date, Maturity and Interest Rates. The Series 2025 Bonds shall be dated as
of the Dated Date, and shall mature in the years and in the amounts and shall bear interest from
the Interest Payment Date next preceding their date of authentication thereof unless authenticated
as of an Interest Payment Date, in which event such Bonds shall bear interest from such date, or
unless such Bonds are authenticated prior to the first Interest Payment Date, in which event such
Bonds shall bear interest from their Dated Date or unless, as shown by the records of the Trustee,
interest on the Series 2025 Bonds shall be in default, in which event such Bonds shall bear interest
from the date to which interest has been paid in full, or unless no interest shall have been paid on
such Bonds, in which event such Bonds shall bear interest from their Dated Date, payable on each
Interest Payment Date at the rates per annum as set forth below:

                 Maturity
                (_______)                Principal Amount               Interest Rate




4909-8256-3425, v. 3                             5
[*Term Bond]

        The interest on Series 2025 Bonds so payable, and punctually paid and duly provided for,
on any Interest Payment Date will be paid to the Registered Owner thereof at the close of business
on the Regular Record Date for such interest. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly
provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Registered Owner of any Series 2025 Bonds
on such Regular Record Date, and may be paid to the Registered Owner thereof at the close of
business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such defaulted interest to be fixed by the
Trustee, notice thereof to be given to such Registered Owner not less than ten days prior to such
Special Record Date. The principal of and premium, if any, on the Series 2025 Bonds are payable
upon presentation and surrender thereof at the principal corporate trust office of the Trustee.
Interest shall be paid by check or draft mailed by certified mail on each Interest Payment Date to
the Holder of each of the Series 2025 Bonds as the name and address of such Holder appears on
the Record Date in the Register. Interest on the Series 2025 Bonds shall be calculated on the basis
of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.

         Section 2.3    Redemption.

                  (a)     Optional Redemption. The Series 2025 Bonds maturing on or prior to
         _______, 20__, are not subject to redemption prior to maturity. The Series 2025 Bonds
         maturing on or after _______, 20__, are subject to redemption prior to maturity at the
         option of the Authority in whole or in part on any date on and after _______, 20__, and if
         in part, in such order of maturity as may be directed by the Authority at a redemption price
         equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Series 2025 Bonds to be redeemed plus
         accrued interest to the date of redemption.

                (b)    Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. The Series 2025 Bonds maturing on
         _______, 20__, are subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption at a redemption price
         equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon to the
         redemption date on the dates and in the principal amounts as follows:

                         Mandatory Sinking Fund
                                  Date                       Principal
                               (_______)                     Amount




___________________



4909-8256-3425, v. 3                              6
* Final maturity date.

                (c)    The Series 2025 Bonds maturing on _______, 20__, are subject to
         mandatory sinking fund redemption at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal
         amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon to the redemption date on the dates and in the
         principal amounts as follows:

                          Mandatory Sinking Fund
                                   Date                        Principal
                                (_______)                      Amount




___________________
* Final maturity date.

         Upon redemption of any Series 2025 Bonds maturing on _______, 20__ or _______,
         20__, other than by application of such mandatory sinking fund redemption, an amount
         equal to the principal amount so redeemed will be credited toward a part or all of any one
         or more of such mandatory sinking fund redemption amounts for the related Series 2025
         Bonds, in such order as shall be directed by the Authority.

                  (d)     Extraordinary Redemption. The Series 2025 Bonds shall be callable for
         redemption prior to maturity in whole on any date, if (i) the Series 2025 Project or a
         material portion thereof is damaged or destroyed or taken in a condemnation proceeding,
         or a material defect in the construction of the Series 2025 Project shall become apparent,
         or title to or the use of all or any material portion of the Series 2025 Project shall be lost
         by reason of a defect in title thereto, (ii) the Net Proceeds of any insurance policy,
         performance bond or condemnation award made available by reason of one or more such
         occurrences shall be insufficient to pay in full the cost of repairing or replacing such portion
         of the Series 2025 Project, and (iii) the City elects to discharge its obligation to repair and
         replace such portion of the Series 2025 Project by depositing such Net Proceeds into the
         Bond Fund, as provided in Section 10.2 of the Master Lease. Upon the deposit of such Net
         Proceeds in the Bond Fund, the payment obligations of the City with respect to the Series
         2025 Project under the Master Lease shall terminate and the City shall have no further
         obligation for the payment of Base Rentals and Additional Rentals thereunder with respect
         to the Series 2025 Project, and possession of the Series 2025 Project, as well as all right,
         title and interest of the City and the Authority in any funds or accounts created under the
         Indenture with respect to the Series 2025 Project shall be surrendered to the Trustee, as
         trustee for the Bondholders. Thereafter, the Indenture and the Security Documents
         applicable to the Series 2025 Project may, subject to the limitations of Article IX of the
         General Indenture, be foreclosed and the Authority’s interest in the Series 2025 Project
         liquidated and the proceeds of such liquidation and the Net Proceeds of any insurance
         policy, performance bond or condemnation award so deposited in the Bond Fund, as well


4909-8256-3425, v. 3                                7
         as all other moneys on deposit in any fund created under the Indenture with respect to the
         Series 2025 Project (except moneys held in the Rebate Fund or for the payment of Bonds
         not then deemed outstanding), shall be applied to the redemption of the Series 2025 Bonds
         at the earliest date practicable, as specified in a written notice from the Authority to the
         Trustee. Any such redemption of the Series 2025 Bonds shall be made upon payment of
         all or a prorated portion of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon to the
         redemption date. IN THE EVENT THE SERIES 2025 BONDS ARE TO BE REDEEMED
         PURSUANT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS PARAGRAPH (C), BY PAYMENT OF
         AN AMOUNT LESS THAN THE OUTSTANDING PRINCIPAL AMOUNT THEREOF,
         AND ACCRUED INTEREST TO THE REDEMPTION DATE, NO FURTHER CLAIM
         FOR PAYMENT MAY BE HAD BY THE BONDHOLDERS AGAINST THE
         AUTHORITY, THE CITY, OR THE TRUSTEE WITH RESPECT TO SAID SERIES
         2025 BONDS. In the event there are moneys remaining in the Bond Fund after payment in
         full of the Series 2025 Bonds, the Trustee is authorized and directed to transfer said moneys
         to the City.

        Section 2.4 Execution of Bonds. The Chair/President is hereby authorized to execute
by facsimile or manual signature the Series 2025 Bonds and the Secretary-Treasurer to countersign
by facsimile or manual signature the Series 2025 Bonds and to have imprinted, engraved,
lithographed, stamped or otherwise placed on the Series 2025 Bonds a facsimile of the official seal
of the Authority, and the Trustee shall manually authenticate the Series 2025 Bonds.

        Section 2.5 Delivery of Bonds. Upon the execution and delivery of this First
Supplemental Indenture, the Authority shall execute and deliver to the Trustee and the Trustee
shall authenticate the Series 2025 Bonds deliver the Series 2025 Bonds to the Underwriter thereof
as directed by the Authority.

        The Series 2025 Bonds issued pursuant to this First Supplemental Indenture shall be
equally and ratably secured under the Indenture with all other series of Additional Bonds and
Refunding Bonds, if any, issued pursuant to the Indenture, without preference, priority or
distinction of any Bonds over any other thereof.

        Section 2.6 Limited Obligation. The Series 2025 Bonds, together with interest thereon,
shall be special, limited obligations of the Authority as described in the General Indenture.

        Section 2.7 Series 2025 Bonds to Remain Tax-Exempt. The Authority covenants and
agrees to and for the benefit of the Bondholders that the Authority (i) will not take any action that
would cause interest on the Series 2025 Bonds to become includible in gross income for purposes
of federal or state income taxation, (ii) will not omit to take or cause to be taken, in timely manner,
any action, which omission would cause the interest on the Series 2025 Bonds to become includible
in gross income for purposes of federal or state income taxation, and (iii) will comply with any
other requirements of federal and state tax law applicable to the Series 2025 Bonds in order to
preserve the exclusion from gross income, for purposes of federal income taxation, of interest on
the Series 2025 Bonds.

        Section 2.8 Record of Payment. In the event of a redemption, acceleration, or any other
similar transaction necessitating a reduction in aggregate principal amount of any of the Series


4909-8256-3425, v. 3                               8
2025 Bonds outstanding, a Bondholder shall make an appropriate notation on the Series 2025
Bonds certificate indicating the date and amounts of such reduction in principal, except in the case
of final maturity in which case the certificate must be presented to the Paying Agent (or as
otherwise provided herein) prior to payment. In the case of a discrepancy between the record of
payments on the Series 2025 Bonds and the Bond Registrar’s records, the Bond Registrar’s records
shall govern.

         Section 2.9    Book-Entry Only System.

                 (a)     Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section 2.9, the
         registered holder of all Series 2025 Bonds shall be, and the Series 2025 Bonds shall be
         registered in the name of, Cede and Co. (“Cede”), as nominee of The Depository Trust
         Company, New York, New York (together with any substitute securities depository
         appointed pursuant to paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 2.9, (“DTC”). Payment of interest
         for any Series 2025 Bond, as applicable, shall be made in accordance with the provisions
         of this Indenture to the account of Cede on the Interest Payment Date for the Series 2025
         Bonds at the address indicated for Cede in the registry books of the Trustee.

                 (b)      The Series 2025 Bonds shall be initially issued in the form of a separate
         registered Bond in the amount of each separate stated maturity of the Series 2025 Bonds.
         Upon initial issuance, the ownership of each such Series 2025 Bond shall be registered in
         the registry books of the Authority kept by the Trustee, in the name of Cede, as nominee
         of DTC. With respect to Series 2025 Bonds so registered in the name of Cede, the
         Authority, the Trustee and any Paying Agent shall have no responsibility or obligation to
         any DTC participant or to any beneficial owner of any of such Series 2025 Bonds. Without
         limiting the immediately preceding sentence, the Authority, the Trustee and any Paying
         Agent shall have no responsibility or obligation with respect to (i) the accuracy of the
         records of DTC, Cede or any DTC participant with respect to any beneficial ownership
         interest in the Series 2025 Bonds; (ii) the delivery of any DTC participant, beneficial owner
         or other person, other than DTC, of any notice with respect to the Series 2025 Bonds,
         including any notice of redemption; or (iii) the payment to any DTC participant, beneficial
         owner or other person, other than DTC, of any amount with respect to the principal or
         redemption price of, or interest on, any of the Series 2025 Bonds. The Authority, the
         Trustee and any Paying Agent may treat DTC as, and deem DTC to be, the absolute owner
         of each Series 2025 Bond for all purposes whatsoever, including (but not limited to) (1)
         payment of the principal or redemption price of, and interest on, each such Series 2025
         Bond, (2) giving notices of redemption and other matters with respect to such Series 2025
         Bonds and (3) registering transfers with respect to such Series 2025 Bonds. The Paying
         Agent shall pay the principal or redemption price of, and interest on, all Series 2025 Bonds
         only to or upon the order of DTC, and all such payments shall be valid and effective to
         satisfy fully and discharge the Authority’s obligations with respect to such principal, or
         redemption price, and interest, to the extent of the sum or sums so paid. Except as provided
         in paragraph (c) of this Section 2.8, no person other than DTC shall receive a Series 2025
         Bond evidencing the obligation of the Authority to make payments of principal or
         redemption price of, and interest on, any such Series 2025 Bond pursuant to this Indenture.
         Upon delivery by DTC to the Trustee of written notice to the effect that DTC has
         determined to substitute a new nominee in place of Cede, and subject to the transfer


4909-8256-3425, v. 3                              9
         provisions of this Indenture, the word “Cede” in this Indenture shall refer to such new
         nominee of DTC.

        Except as provided in paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 2.9, and notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Indenture, the Series 2025 Bonds may be transferred, in whole but not in part,
only to a nominee of DTC, or by a nominee of DTC to DTC or a nominee of DTC, or by DTC or
a nominee of DTC to any successor securities depository or any nominee thereof.

                 (c)      (i) DTC may determine to discontinue providing its services with respect
         to the Series 2025 Bonds at any time by giving written notice to the Authority, the Trustee
         and the Paying Agent, which notice shall certify that DTC has discharged its
         responsibilities with respect to the Series 2025 Bonds under applicable law.

                       (ii)       The Authority, in its sole discretion and without the consent of any
                  other person, may, by notice to the Trustee, terminate the services of DTC with
                  respect to the Series 2025 Bonds if the Authority determines that the continuation
                  of the system of book-entry-only transfers through DTC is not in the best interests
                  of the beneficial owners of the Series 2025 Bonds or the Authority; and the
                  Authority shall, by notice to the Trustee, terminate the services of DTC with respect
                  to the Series 2025 Bonds upon receipt by the Authority, the Trustee, and the Paying
                  Agent of written notice from DTC to the effect that DTC has received written notice
                  from DTC participants having interests, as shown in the records of DTC, in an
                  aggregate principal amount of not less than fifty percent (50%) of the aggregate
                  principal amount of the then outstanding Series 2025 Bonds to the effect that: (1)
                  DTC is unable to discharge its responsibilities with respect to the Series 2025
                  Bonds; or (2) a continuation of the requirement that all of the outstanding Series
                  2025 Bonds be registered in the registration books kept by the Trustee in the name
                  of Cede, as nominee of DTC, is not in the best interests of the beneficial owners of
                  the Series 2025 Bonds.

                      (iii)      Upon the termination of the services of DTC with respect to the
                  Series 2025 Bonds pursuant to subsection (c)(ii)(2) hereof, or upon the
                  discontinuance or termination of the services of DTC with respect to the Series
                  2025 Bonds pursuant to subsection (c)(i) or subsection (c)(ii)(1) hereof the
                  Authority may within 90 days thereafter appoint a substitute securities depository
                  which, in the opinion of the Authority, is willing and able to undertake the functions
                  of DTC hereunder upon reasonable and customary terms. If no such successor can
                  be found within such period, the Series 2025 Bonds shall no longer be restricted to
                  being registered in the registration books kept by the Trustee in the name of Cede,
                  as nominee of DTC. In such event, the Authority shall execute and the Trustee
                  shall authenticate Bond certificates as requested by DTC of like principal amount,
                  maturity and series, in authorized denominations to the identifiable beneficial
                  owners in replacement of such beneficial owners’ beneficial interest in the Series
                  2025 Bonds.

                     (iv)        Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture to the
                  contrary, so long as any Series 2025 Bond is registered in the name of Cede, as


4909-8256-3425, v. 3                               10
                  nominee of DTC, all payments with respect to the principal or redemption price of,
                  and interest on, such Series 2025 Bond and all notices with respect to such Series
                  2025 Bond shall be made and given, respectively, to DTC as provided in the
                  hereinafter defined Representation Letter of the Authority addressed to DTC and in
                  DTC’s operational arrangements.

                       (v)       In connection with any notice or other communication to be
                  provided to Owners of Series 2025 Bonds registered in the name of Cede pursuant
                  to the Indenture by the Authority or the Trustee with respect to any consent or other
                  action to be taken by such Owners, the Authority shall establish a record date for
                  such consent or other action by such Owners and give DTC notice of such record
                  date not less than fifteen (15) days in advance of such record date to the extent
                  possible.

                      (vi)        A blanket Representation Letter (the “Representation Letter”) has
                  been executed and delivered by the Authority. The execution and delivery of the
                  Representation Letter shall not in any way limit the provisions of this Section 2.9
                  hereof or in any other way impose upon the Authority or the Trustee any obligation
                  whatsoever with respect to persons having interests in the Series 2025 Bonds other
                  than the registered owners of the Series 2025 Bonds, as shown on the registration
                  books kept by the Trustee. The Trustee shall take all action necessary for all
                  representations of the Authority and the Trustee in the Representation Letter or any
                  other comparable agreement with a securities depository with respect to the Trustee
                  and in DTC’s operational arrangements to at all times by complied with.


                                             ARTICLE III

                                      FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS

        Section 3.1 Creation of Series 2025 Accounts. There is hereby established with the
Trustee a Series 2025 Bond Account within the Bond Fund, a Series 2025 Account within the Cost
of Issuance Account, and a Series 2025 Account within the Construction Fund.

        Section 3.2    Disbursement of Series 2025 Bond Proceeds. The Authority shall deposit
with the Trustee the proceeds from the sale of the Series 2025 Bonds in the amount of $________,
(being the par amount of the Series 2025 Bonds, plus a reoffering premium of $_______, and less
an Underwriter’s discount of $________), and the Trustee shall transfer and deposit such amounts
as follow:

                (a)    An amount equal to $_________ shall be deposited into the Series 2025
         Construction Fund; and

                (b)     The remaining amount into the Series 2025 Cost of Issuance Account held
         by the Trustee to be used to pay costs of issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds.

      Section 3.3 Costs of Issuance Account; Payment of Costs of Issuing Series 2025 Bonds.
An amount equal to $________ of the proceeds of the Series 2025 Bonds shall be deposited into


4909-8256-3425, v. 3                               11
the Series 2025 Cost of Issuance Account. At or about the time of the issuance of the Series 2025
Bonds, the Trustee shall apply the amounts on deposit in the Series 2025 Cost of Issuance Account
to pay costs of issuing the Series 2025 Bonds, as instructed in the Cost of Issuance Disbursement
in substantially the form of Exhibit B attached hereto to be signed by the Chair/President of the
Authority. Any amounts remaining in the Series 2025 Cost of Issuance Account 90 days after the
delivery of the Series 2025 Bonds shall be transferred to the Series 2025 Account of the
Construction Fund and applied to the uses therein authorized.

       Section 3.4 Debt Service Reserve Requirement.             The Debt Service Reserve
Requirement with respect to the Series 2025 Bonds shall be [$0].

        Section 3.5   Deposit to and Use of Series 2025 Account of Construction Fund. The
balance of the proceeds of the Series 2025 Bonds remaining after depositing $_______ to the
Series 2025 Cost of Issuance Account for payment of certain costs of issuance of the Series 2025
Bonds as contemplated by Section 3.3 of this First Supplemental Indenture, shall be deposited into
the Series 2025 Account in the Construction Fund. The amount on deposit in the Series 2025
Account of the Construction Fund shall be disbursed by the Trustee for the purpose for which the
Series 2025 Bonds were issued (including any capitalized interest thereon) in accordance with the
provisions of the Master Lease and the Indenture. Upon completion of the Series 2025 Project, as
evidenced by delivery of a completion certificate, amounts remaining on deposit in the Series 2025
Account of the Construction Fund shall be applied to the redemption of Series 2025 Bonds as soon
as practicable.

       Other than any amounts for capitalized interest on the Series 2025 Bonds, which shall be
disbursed as permitted above without further direction as the same becomes due and payable, no
amounts shall be disbursed from the Series 2025 Account of the Construction Fund for payment
of Contractors with respect to the Series 2025 Project until the applicable requirements of the
Master Lease and the Indenture have been met and reasonable evidence of the same (including the
insurance requirements in Article VII and Article IX of the Master Lease) has been delivered to
the Trustee.

         Section 3.6 Series 2025 Bonds as Initial Bonds. The Series 2025 Bonds are issued as
the Initial Bonds under the Indenture. The Authority hereby certifies that the requirements set forth
herein and in Section 2.4 of the General Indenture have been and will be complied with in
connection with the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds.


                                          ARTICLE IV

                        CONFIRMATION OF GENERAL INDENTURE

        Section 4.1    Confirmation of General Indenture. As modified and supplemented by this
First Supplemental Indenture, the General Indenture is in all things and respects hereby ratified
and confirmed. The provisions of the General Indenture shall apply to this First Supplemental
Indenture to the extent that such provisions have not been deleted or modified by or are not
inconsistent with the specific provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture.




4909-8256-3425, v. 3                             12
                                         ARTICLE V

                                      MISCELLANEOUS

       Section 5.1 Confirmation of Sale of Series 2025 Bonds. The sale of the Series 2025
Bonds to the Underwriter at a price of $_________ is hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

        Section 5.2 Illegal, etc. Provisions Disregarded. In case any provision in this First
Supplemental Indenture shall for any reason be held invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any
respect, this First Supplemental Indenture shall be construed as if such provision had never been
contained herein.

       Section 5.3 Applicable Law. This First Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah.

      Section 5.4 Headings for Convenience Only. The descriptive headings in this First
Supplemental Indenture are inserted for convenience only and shall not control or affect the
meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.

       Section 5.5 Counterparts. This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any
number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which, when so
executed and delivered, shall constitute but one and the same instrument.




4909-8256-3425, v. 3                           13
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Authority has caused these presents to be signed in its
corporate name and with its official seal hereunto affixed and attested by its duly authorized
officers, and to evidence its acceptance of the trust hereby created, the Trustee has caused these
presents to be executed in its corporate name with its corporate seal hereunto affixed all by its duly
authorized officers, as of the date first above written.

                                               LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY
                                               OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH



                                               By: ________________________________
                                                           Chair/President
(SEAL)


ATTEST AND COUNTERSIGN:



By: ________________________________
           Secretary-Treasurer


                                               [TRUSTEE], as Trustee



                                               By: ________________________________

                                               Title: _______________________________




4909-8256-3425, v. 3                             14
                                            EXHIBIT A

                                FORM OF SERIES 2025 BONDS

Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust
Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the Authority or its agent for registration of
transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co.
or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company
and any payment is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE
HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL since
the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.

                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                               STATE OF UTAH
           LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH
                       LEASE REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2025


REGISTERED                                                                           REGISTERED


NUMBER R-1                                                                        $_____________


      Interest Rate         Maturity Date        Original Issue Date          CUSIP


REGISTERED OWNER: CEDE & CO.

PRINCIPAL AMOUNT: ______________________AND NO/100 DOLLARS****

        The Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, a nonprofit corporation duly
organized and existing under the laws of the State of Utah (the “Authority”), performing essential
governmental functions on behalf of the City of Holladay, Utah, a body corporate and politic of
the State of Utah (the “City”) for value received, promises to pay solely and to the extent available
from the sources hereinafter provided, to the Registered Owner named above, or registered assigns,
on the Maturity Date specified above, the Principal Amount specified above, and in like manner
to pay interest on said amount at the Interest Rate specified above (calculated on the basis of a
360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), payable on _______ and _______ of each year
(each an “Interest Payment Date”) commencing _______, 20__, except as the provisions
hereinafter set forth with respect to redemption of this Bond prior to maturity may become
applicable hereto. Principal payments due to mandatory sinking fund redemption may be noted on
the Record of Principal Payments attached hereto and upon signature of an authorized officer of
the Registered Owner, the principal amount of this Bond shall be reduced by the payment of
principal thereof on the dates and amounts indicated on such Record of Principal Payments without
the surrender of the Bond to the Paying Agent. Interest on this Bond shall be payable by wire
transfer to an account located in the United States or check or draft mailed to the Registered Owner


4909-8256-3425, v. 3                            A-1
hereof at his address as it appears on the registration books of the Paying Agent, who shall also act
as the Registrar for the Issuer, or at such other address as is furnished to the Paying Agent in
writing by such Registered Owner. Interest hereon shall be deemed to be paid by the Paying Agent
when wired or mailed by certified mail. Both principal and interest shall be payable in lawful
money of the United States of America designated by the Registered Owner in written instructions
furnished to the Trustee.

        The Series 2025 Bonds (hereinafter defined) are dated as of the Original Issue Date shown
above. Interest on the Series 2025 Bonds authenticated prior to the first Interest Payment Date
shall accrue from and including the Original Issue Date. Interest on the Series 2025 Bonds
authenticated on or subsequent to the first Interest Payment Date shall accrue from the Interest
Payment Date next preceding their date of authentication, or if authenticated on an Interest
Payment Date, from that date.

        This Bond is one of an authorized issue of Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025, of the
Authority limited in aggregate principal amount to $[PAR] (the “Series 2025 Bonds”) issued to
(a) finance [PROJECT] (the “Series 2025 Project”) and (b) pay costs of issuance of the Series 2025
Bonds. The Series 2025 Project has been leased by the Authority to the City under the terms of a
Master Lease Agreement dated as of _______, 2025 (which agreement, as from time to time
amended and supplemented, is hereinafter referred to as the “Master Lease”). The obligation of
the City to make lease payments under the Master Lease is subject to the annual renewal of the
Master Lease and to the right of the City to terminate its payment obligations with respect to the
Series 2025 Project under the Master Lease in the event that the City fails to appropriate moneys
to pay such rentals. In the event that the City’s payment obligations under the Master Lease shall
be terminated by reason of a failure to appropriate (referred to herein as “Event of
Nonappropriation”) or by reason of an Event of Default (as defined in the Master Lease), the
principal amount of this Series 2025 Bond and interest hereon will be payable from such moneys,
if any, as may be available under the Indenture for such purpose, including any moneys received
by the Trustee from a liquidation or other disposition of the Authority’s interest in the Series 2025
Project including a foreclosure of the lien of the Indenture (hereinafter defined) and the Security
Documents (as defined in the Indenture), subject to the limitations contained in the Indenture.
Under certain circumstances, this Series 2025 Bond and the interest hereon may also be payable
from Net Proceeds (as defined in the Master Lease) of insurance policies, performance bonds,
condemnation awards and liquidation proceeds with respect to the Series 2025 Project.

        The Series 2025 Bonds are issued pursuant to the authority contained in the Local Building
Authority Act, Title 17D, Chapter 2, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended and the Local
Government Bonding Act, Title 11, Chapter 14, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended
(collectively, the “Act”), and under and are equally and ratably secured by and entitled to the
protection of a General Indenture of Trust dated as of _______, 2025 (the “General Indenture”)
and a First Supplemental Indenture of Trust dated as of _______, 2025 (the “First Supplemental
Indenture,” and together with the General Indenture, the “Indenture”), each by and between the
Authority and the Trustee, duly executed and delivered by the Authority to the Trustee and
pursuant to which the Base Rentals (as defined in the Master Lease) payable by the City, under the
Master Lease and, if paid by the City, the Purchase Option Price (as defined in the Master Lease),
are assigned to the Trustee to secure the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on
the Series 2025 Bonds. Additionally, the Authority has granted a security interest in the Series


4909-8256-3425, v. 3                            A-2
2025 Project, pursuant to certain Security Documents to the Trustee to further secure its obligations
under the Indenture.

        The Indenture provides that, upon the conditions and restrictions therein, the Authority
may hereafter issue Refunding Bonds or Additional Bonds (each as defined in the Indenture) from
time to time to finance or refinance the costs of the Series 2025 Project or other facilities and
improvements under certain terms and conditions contained in the Indenture and in the Master
Lease and, if issued, the Refunding Bonds and/or the Additional Bonds will rank pari passu with
the Series 2025 Bonds then Outstanding (as defined in the Indenture) and be equally and ratably
secured and entitled to the protection of the Indenture and the Security Documents (the Series 2025
Bonds, the Refunding Bonds and the Additional Bonds are collectively referred to herein as the
“Bonds”). Reference is hereby made to the Master Lease, the Security Documents and the
Indenture for a description of the property pledged and assigned, the provisions, among others,
with respect to the nature and extent of the security, the rights, duties and obligations of the City,
the Authority, the Trustee and the holders of the Series 2025 Bonds, the issuance of Refunding
Bonds or Additional Bonds, the terms upon which the Series 2025 Bonds are issued and secured,
the terms and conditions upon which the Series 2025 Bonds will be deemed to have been paid, at
or prior to maturity or redemption of the Series 2025 Bonds, and the rights of the holders of the
Series 2025 Bonds upon the occurrence of an Event of Default or an Event of Nonappropriation.

        The Series 2025 Bonds and the interest thereon constitute special, limited obligations of
the Authority. Except to the extent payable from the proceeds of the Series 2025 Bonds and the
income from the investment thereof, the proceeds of certain funds held by the Trustee, the Net
Proceeds of certain insurance policies, performance bonds and condemnation awards or the
proceeds, if any, from a liquidation or other disposition of the Authority’s interest in the Series
2025 Project subsequent to foreclosure of the lien of the Indenture and the Security Documents,
the Series 2025 Bonds and the interest thereon are payable solely from Base Rentals, and, if paid,
the Purchase Option Price paid by the City under the Master Lease. Payments under the Master
Lease may be made only from City Funds (as defined in the Master Lease) which are legally
available for such purpose.

       Neither the Master Lease, the Series 2025 Bonds, nor the interest thereon shall constitute
or give rise to a general obligation indebtedness of the City, or a charge against the City or its
general credit or the taxing power of the City. Neither the City nor the Authority on its behalf, has
pledged the credit of the City to the payment of the Series 2025 Bonds, the interest thereon or
amounts due or to become due under the Master Lease. The Authority has no taxing power.

     THE CITY IS NOT OBLIGATED TO APPROPRIATE CITY FUNDS FOR THE
PURPOSE OF PAYING BASE RENTALS, ADDITIONAL RENTALS OR THE PURCHASE
OPTION PRICE UNDER THE MASTER LEASE, AND NO JUDGMENT MAY BE ENTERED
AGAINST THE CITY IN THE EVENT OF AN INSUFFICIENCY OF MONEYS TO PAY THE
PRINCIPAL OF, PREMIUM, IF ANY, AND INTEREST ON THE SERIES 2025 BONDS. THE
MASTER LEASE IS SUBJECT TO ANNUAL RENEWAL AND THE CITY’S PAYMENT
OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE MASTER LEASE WILL BE TERMINATED UPON THE
OCCURRENCE OF AN EVENT OF DEFAULT. IN SUCH EVENT, ALL PAYMENTS FROM
THE CITY UNDER THE MASTER LEASE WILL TERMINATE AND THE SERIES 2025
BONDS AND THE INTEREST THEREON WILL BE PAYABLE SOLELY FROM AND TO


4909-8256-3425, v. 3                            A-3
THE EXTENT OF SUCH MONEYS, IF ANY, AS MAY BE HELD BY THE TRUSTEE UNDER
THE INDENTURE AND ANY MONEYS MADE AVAILABLE FROM A LIQUIDATION OR
OTHER DISPOSITION OF THE AUTHORITY’S INTEREST IN THE Series 2025 Project
SUBSEQUENT TO FORECLOSURE OF THE LIEN OF THE INDENTURE AND THE
SECURITY DOCUMENTS, SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATIONS SET FORTH IN THE
INDENTURE. A BONDHOLDER SHOULD NOT ANTICIPATE THAT IT WILL BE
POSSIBLE TO FORECLOSE THE AUTHORITY’S INTEREST IN THE Series 2025 Project
AND LIQUIDATE, RELET OR SELL SUCH INTEREST AFTER THE OCCURRENCE OF AN
EVENT OF DEFAULT FOR AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO THE AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL
AMOUNT OF THE SERIES 2025 BONDS THEN OUTSTANDING PLUS ACCRUED
INTEREST THEREON.

        No deficiency judgment upon foreclosure may be entered against the City or the Authority
and no breach of any provision of the Master Lease, the Security Documents, the Series 2025
Bonds or the Indenture shall impose any general obligation or liability upon or a charge against
the City, the Authority, or the general credit or taxing powers of the City.

         This Series 2025 Bond is transferable by the Registered Owner hereof in person or by its
attorney duly authorized in writing at the principal corporate trust office of the Trustee in Salt Lake
City, Utah, but only in the manner, subject to the limitations and upon payment of the charges
provided in the Indenture, and upon surrender and cancellation of this Series 2025 Bond. Upon
such transfer a new registered Bond or Bonds of the same series and the same maturity and of
authorized denomination or denominations for the same aggregate principal amount will be issued
to the transferee in exchange therefor.

        The Authority, the Paying Agent and the Trustee may deem and treat the Registered Owner
hereof as the absolute owner hereof (whether or not this Series 2025 Bond shall be overdue) for
the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of principal hereof and premium, if any, and
interest due hereon and for all other purposes and the Authority, the Paying Agent and the Trustee
shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary.

       The Series 2025 Bonds are subject to redemption prior to maturity at the times, upon the
occurrence of the events and with notice all as found in the Indenture.

        In the event of a redemption, acceleration, or any other similar transaction necessitating a
reduction in aggregate principal amount of the Series 2025 Bonds, including any mandatory
sinking fund redemption, a Bondholder shall make an appropriate notation on the Series 2025
Bonds certificate indicating the date and amounts of such reduction in principal, except in the case
of final maturity in which case the certificate must be presented to the Paying Agent prior to
payment. In the case of a discrepancy between the record of payments on the Series 2025 Bonds
and the Bond Registrar’s records, the Bond Registrar’s records shall govern.

       The Registered Owner of this Series 2025 Bond shall have no right to enforce the
provisions of the Indenture or to institute action to enforce the covenants therein, or to take any
action with respect to any Event of Default under the Master Lease or any Event of Default under
the Indenture or the Security Documents, or to institute, appear in or defend any suit or other
proceedings with respect thereto, except as provided in the Indenture.


4909-8256-3425, v. 3                             A-4
        The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof
and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Authority and the rights of the holders of
the Series 2025 Bonds at any time by the Authority with the consent of the City (if an Event of
Default does not then exist under the Master Lease) and the Registered Owners of not less than 66
2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the Series 2025 Bonds at the time Outstanding. The
Indenture also permits waiver of compliance by the Authority with any terms of the Indenture with
the consent of the City (if an Event of Default does not then exist under the Master Lease) and the
Registered Owners of not less than 66 2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the Series 2025
Bonds at the time Outstanding. Any such consent or waiver by the Registered Owner of this Series
2025 Bond shall be conclusive and binding upon such Owner and upon all future holders of this
Series 2025 Bond and of any Bond issued upon the transfer or exchange of this Series 2025 Bond
whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Series 2025 Bond. The
Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Trustee to waive certain Events of Default under
the Indenture and their consequences. The Indenture requires the written consent of the Trustee
to any waiver or amendment of any provision of the Indenture or any supplemental indenture
which modifies the rights, duties or immunities of the Trustee.

        It is hereby certified, recited and declared that all acts, conditions and things required to
exist, happen and be performed precedent to and in the execution and delivery of the Indenture
and the issuance of this Series 2025 Bond do exist, have happened and have been performed in
due time, form and manner as required by law; that the issuance of this Series 2025 Bond and the
issue of which it forms a part, together with all other obligations of the Authority, do not exceed
or violate any constitutional or statutory debt limitation. As required by the Act, the City has by
resolution authorized the Authority to issue the Series 2025 Bonds and to execute and deliver the
Master Lease, the Security Documents and the Indenture.

        This Series 2025 Bond shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose or be
entitled to any security or benefit under the Indenture until the Certificate of Authentication hereon
shall have been signed by the Trustee.




4909-8256-3425, v. 3                            A-5
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Authority has caused this Series 2025 Bond to be executed
in its name by the facsimile or manual signature of its Chair/President and its corporate seal to be
hereunto impressed or imprinted hereon and attested by the manual or facsimile signature of its
Secretary-Treasurer, and said officials do by the execution hereof adopt as and for the respective
proper signatures their respective facsimile or manual signatures appearing hereon.

                                                 LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY
                                                 OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH


(SEAL)
                                                  By: ________________________________
                                                                Chair/President

ATTEST AND COUNTERSIGN:



By: _________________________________
            Secretary-Treasurer




4909-8256-3425, v. 3                           A-6
                           CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

        This Bond is one of the Series 2025 Bonds of the issue described in the within­ mentioned
First Supplemental Indenture of Trust.

                                            [TRUSTEE], as Trustee


                                            By: ________________________________
                                                       Authorized Officer

Date of Authentication: __________________




4909-8256-3425, v. 3                          A-7
                                         ASSIGNMENT

       FOR VALUE RECEIVED, ________________________________________,                          the
undersigned, hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto:

________________________________________________________________________
               (Social Security or Other Identifying Number of Assignee)

________________________________________________________________________
               (Please Print or Typewrite Name and Address of Assignee)

the within Bond and all rights thereunder, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints
________________________________________ attorney to transfer the within Bond on the
books kept for registration thereof, with full power of substitution in the premises.

DATED: _______________________

                                              Signature ___________________________

                                              NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must
                                              correspond with the name as it appears upon the face
                                              of the within Bond in every particular, without
                                              alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.


Signature Guaranteed:

____________________________________
NOTICE: Signature(s) must be guaranteed by an
“eligible guarantor institution” that is a member of or
a participant in a “signature guarantee program” (e.g.,
the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program,
the Stock Exchange Medallion Program or the New
York Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature
Program).




4909-8256-3425, v. 3                            A-8
                                          EXHIBIT B

                       COST OF ISSUANCE DISBURSEMENT REQUEST


[TRUSTEE]
_______________________
_______________________

        Pursuant to Section 3.3 of the First Supplemental Indenture of Trust dated as of _______,
2025, you are hereby authorized to pay the following costs of issuance from the Series 2025 Costs
of Issuance Account:

                                    [See Attached Schedule]



                                            LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF
                                            THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH



                                            By: ________________________________
                                                        Chair/President



                                    COSTS OF ISSUANCE

               Payee                    Purpose                       Amount




4909-8256-3425, v. 3                          B-1
                              EXHIBIT C

                       GROUND LEASE AGREEMENT




4923-6281-6609, v. 3             C-1
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:

Randall M. Larsen
Gilmore & Bell, P.C.
15 W. South Temple, Suite 1400
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101




                               GROUND LEASE AGREEMENT



                                   Dated as of _______, 2025


                                            between


                              LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY
                       OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH, AS LESSEE

                        A Nonprofit Corporation Organized Under the Laws
                                       of the State of Utah

                                               and

                           THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, AS LESSOR

                                         A Body Politic
                                       of the State of Utah




4932-1150-9345, v. 3
        THIS GROUND LEASE AGREEMENT (this “Ground Lease”) dated as of _______,
2025, entered into by and between the LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
HOLLADAY, UTAH (the “Authority”), as lessee hereunder, a nonprofit corporation duly
organized, existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Utah, and also acting as
grantor under a certain General Indenture of Trust of even date herewith, and the CITY OF
HOLLADAY (the “City”), as lessor hereunder, a body politic duly existing under the laws of the
State of Utah;

                                          WITNESSETH:

       WHEREAS, the City is the owner in fee simple of the real property described in the
attached Exhibit A (the “Property”); and

       WHEREAS, at the request of the City, the Authority desires to issue its Lease Revenue
Bonds, Series 2025, in the aggregate principal amount of $[PAR] (the “Series 2025 Bonds”) for
the purpose of (a) financing all or a portion of the costs of (i) the acquisition and construction of a
park and recreation facility and all related improvements and (ii) the renovation, retrofit and
improvements of a city hall, including seismic upgrades and related improvements (the “Series
2025 Project”) and (b) paying costs of issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds; and

        WHEREAS, the Authority desires to lease, as ground lessee, from the City the real property
described as Exhibit A attached hereto (the “Property”) upon which the Series 2025 Project will
be located; and

        WHEREAS, the City desires to lease the Property, as ground lessor, to the Authority under
the terms and provisions set forth in this Ground Lease; and

       WHEREAS, under the provisions of a resolution dated September 18, 2025, the City has
authorized and approved (i) the execution of this Ground Lease, (ii) a Master Lease Agreement
dated as of _______, 2025 (the “Master Lease”) between the City and the Authority, wherein the
Authority will lease to the City the Series 2025 Project and (iii) certain actions to be taken by the
Authority in connection with the financing of the Series 2025 Project, including the issuance by
the Authority of the Series 2025 Bonds under a General Indenture of Trust and a First
Supplemental Indenture of Trust each dated as of _______, 2025 (together, the “Indenture”), each
between the Authority and [TRUSTEE], as trustee (the “Trustee”); and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of a resolution dated September 18, 2025, the
Governing Board of the Authority has authorized, approved and directed the execution of this
Ground Lease, has authorized and approved the execution of the Master Lease, the Indenture and
the other Security Documents (as defined in the Indenture) and has authorized, approved and
directed certain actions to be taken by the Authority in connection with the financing of the Series
2025 Project, including the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds:

       NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises and the mutual promises
and covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:




4932-1150-9345, v. 3                              1
                                              ARTICLE I

                                            DEFINITIONS

        Terms defined in the above recitals shall have the same meaning when used herein. Unless
the context otherwise requires or unless otherwise specified herein, all terms defined in Article I
of the General Indenture, Article I of the First Supplemental Indenture and Article I of the Master
Lease shall have the same meaning where used in this Ground Lease. In addition, unless the context
otherwise requires, the terms defined in this Article I shall, for purposes of this Ground Lease,
have the meaning herein specified.

      “Event of Default” means one or more events of default as defined in Section 12.1 of this
Ground Lease.

       “Ground Lease Term” means the duration of the leasehold estate created in the Property as
provided in Article IV of this Ground Lease.

         “Property” has the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals to this Ground Lease.

         “Rentals” means the rental payments payable by the Authority hereunder.

         “State” means the State of Utah.

                                              ARTICLE II

                       REPRESENTATIONS, COVENANTS AND WARRANTIES

       Section 2.1 Representations, Covenants and Warranties of the City. The City
represents, covenants and warrants for the benefit of the Authority and the Trustee as follows:

                 (a)     The City is a duly existing political subdivision and body corporate and
         politic within the State under the Constitution and laws of the State. Under the provisions
         of the Constitution and laws of the State, the City is authorized to enter into the transactions
         contemplated by this Ground Lease and to carry out its obligations hereunder. The City has
         duly authorized and approved the execution and delivery of this Ground Lease.

                  (b)    The City warrants that it holds the fee simple interest in the Property and
         that all the Property is free from any encumbrances other than Permitted Encumbrances.

       Section 2.2 Representations, Covenants and Warranties of the Authority. The
Authority represents, covenants and warrants for the benefit of the City and the Trustee as follows:

                 (a)     The Authority is a nonprofit corporation duly incorporated and in good
         standing in the State of Utah and is duly qualified to transact business in the State of Utah,
         is not in violation of any provision of its Articles of Incorporation or its Bylaws, has the
         corporate power and authority to enter into this Ground Lease and has duly authorized and
         approved the execution and delivery of this Ground Lease by proper corporate action.



4932-1150-9345, v. 3                                2
                  (b)    The Authority will take no action or fail to take any action, which action or
         failure to act would constitute a default under the Master Lease or this Ground Lease.

                                            ARTICLE III

                                       DEMISING CLAUSE

       The City hereby demises and leases the Property to the Authority and the Authority leases
the Property from the City, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances, in accordance with the
provisions of this Ground Lease, to have and to hold for the Ground Lease Term unless sooner
terminated as expressly provided herein.

                                            ARTICLE IV

                                     GROUND LEASE TERM

        Section 4.1 Commencement of Ground Lease Term. The Ground Lease Term shall
commence as of the date of issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds, and shall terminate on _________,
unless sooner terminated in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.2 hereof.

        Section 4.2    Section 4.2 Termination of Ground Lease Term. The Ground Lease Term
shall terminate upon the first to occur of any of the following events:

                  (a)   The expiration of the Ground Lease Term as provided in Section 4.1 hereof;
         or

                 (b)    The conveyance of the Series 2025 Project to the City under the provisions
         of Section 12.1 of the Master Lease.

       Section 4.3 Option to Renew Ground Lease. Notwithstanding anything contained
elsewhere herein to the contrary, in the event the capital actually invested (as defined in the Local
Building Authority Act, Title 17D, Chapter 2, Utah Code Annotated, 1953 as amended) by the
Authority in improvements constructed upon the Property has not been fully repaid by the City at
the expiration of the term of this Ground Lease, or upon an Event of Nonappropriation or Event
of Default as described in Sections 6.6 and 14.1 respectively of the Master Lease, the Ground
Lease shall automatically be renewed on the same terms and conditions as set forth herein, for an
additional term sufficient to repay said capital, which term, when added to the number of years for
which this Ground Lease has theretofore been in effect, shall not exceed forty (40) years.

                                            ARTICLE V

                                  ENJOYMENT OF PROPERTY

       Subject to the provisions of the Master Lease, the City hereby covenants to provide the
Authority during the Ground Lease Term with quiet use and enjoyment of the Property and the
Authority shall during the Ground Lease Term peaceably and quietly have and hold and enjoy the
Property, without suit, trouble or hindrance from the City, except as expressly set forth herein. The
City shall not interfere with such quiet use and enjoyment during the Ground Lease Term so long


4932-1150-9345, v. 3                              3
as no Event of Default shall have occurred. The City shall at the request of the Authority join in
any legal action in which the Authority asserts its right to such possession and enjoyment, to the
extent that the City may lawfully do so. In addition, the Authority may at its own expense join in
any legal action affecting its possession and enjoyment of the Property and shall be joined in any
action affecting its liabilities hereunder.

       The City shall have the right at all reasonable times during business hours to enter into and
upon the Property for the purpose of inspecting the same.

                                           ARTICLE VI

                               PAYMENTS BY THE AUTHORITY

       The Authority shall pay Rental Payments to the City in the sum of Forty Dollars ($40.00)
(being one dollar ($1) per year for a maximum of 40 years), which amount represents the total
Rental Payments due hereunder during the Ground Lease Term (including all renewal option
periods). The parties hereto hereby acknowledge that said Rental Payments have been paid in full
on the date hereof in lawful money of the United States of America at the principal office of the
City Council of the City. The City and the Authority hereby determine and agree that the Rental
Payments payable hereunder during the Ground Lease Term, together with other good and
valuable consideration received by the City under and pursuant to the Master Lease, represent
reasonable rental for the use of the Property. In making such determination, the City and the
Authority have given consideration to the current value of the Property, the execution by the City
and the Authority of the Master Lease and the rentals payable thereunder, the financing by the
Authority of the Series 2025 Project, the uses and purposes for which the Series 2025 Project will
be employed by the City, the benefit to the citizens of the City by reason of the improvement of
the Series 2025 Project and the use and occupancy of such facilities pursuant to the terms and
provisions of the Master Lease.

                                           ARTICLE VII

                       NONSUBORDINATION OF THE CITY’S INTEREST

        The Authority intends to finance the Series 2025 Project by the issuance of the Series 2025
Bonds in accordance with the provisions of the Master Lease and Indenture; however, it is
understood and agreed that only the Authority’s leasehold interest in the Property will be used as
security for the payment of the principal, premium, if any, and interest on such Series 2025 Bonds.
Consequently, it is understood and agreed by and between the City and the Authority that the City
has not subordinated, and shall not be required to subordinate, its interest in and to the Property to
secure such financing. However, it is hereby acknowledged that improvements constructed on the
Property, including but not limited to the Series 2025 Project, will or may be used as security for
the Series 2025 Bonds. In addition, it is understood that the Authority intends to assign its interest,
as lessee, in and to this Ground Lease to the Trustee to secure the Series 2025 Bonds. The City
hereby consents to such assignment.




4932-1150-9345, v. 3                              4
                                           ARTICLE VIII

                         TITLE; LIMITATIONS ON ENCUMBRANCES

        Section 8.1 Title to the Property and the Series 2025 Project. Subject to the leasehold
interest created hereby, title to the Property shall at all times be held in the name of the City. Except
personal property purchased by the City at its own expense, title to the Series 2025 Project and
any and all additions and modifications thereto and replacements thereof shall be held in the name
of the Authority. The City shall have no right, title or interest in the Series 2025 Project or any
additions and modifications thereto or replacements thereof, except its reversionary rights by law
as lessor and except as expressly set forth herein and in the Master Lease. On termination of this
Ground Lease, the City shall become the title owner of all improvements affixed to the Property,
including the Series 2025 Project. The Authority agrees to execute such documents on termination
of this Ground Lease as are required to convey said improvements to the City as herein provided.

        Section 8.2 No Encumbrance, Mortgage or Pledge. Neither the Authority nor the City
shall directly or indirectly create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any mortgage, pledge, lien,
charge, encumbrance or claim on or with respect to the Property, except for Permitted
Encumbrances as defined in the Master Lease.

        Section 8.3 Encumbrance of Leasehold Interest. The Authority may encumber by
mortgage or deed of trust, and may convey, assign or sublease, its leasehold interest and estate in
the Property, alone or together with its interests in the Series 2025 Project as a whole, for the
benefit of the holders of the Series 2025 Bonds. The execution of any such mortgage, deed of trust,
assignment or other instrument or the foreclosure thereof or any sale thereunder, either by judicial
proceeding or by virtue of any power reserved in such mortgage, deed of trust, assignment or
conveyance by the Authority for the benefit of the holders of the Series 2025 Bonds, or the
exercising of any right, power or privilege set forth therein, shall not be held as a violation of any
of the terms or conditions hereof. The assignee or grantee of any conveyance or assignment of the
Authority may, at its option, at any time before the rights of the Authority have been terminated
as provided herein, pay any of the Rentals due hereunder or pay any taxes and assessments, or do
any other act or thing required of the Authority by the terms hereof, or do any act or thing which
may be necessary or proper to be done in the observance of the covenants and conditions thereof,
or to prevent the termination hereof; all payments so made, and all things so done and performed
by such party or entity shall be effective to prevent a forfeiture of the rights of the Authority
hereunder as the same would have been if done and performed by said Authority.

                                            ARTICLE IX

                       MAINTENANCE, TAXES AND OTHER CHARGES


         Section 9.1   Maintenance of the Property by the Authority. In the event that the Ground
Lease Term extends beyond the date of termination of the Master Lease, the Authority agrees that
at all times during the Ground Lease Term the Authority will maintain, preserve and keep the
Property or cause the Property to be maintained, preserved and kept with the appurtenances and
every part and parcel thereof, in good repair, working order and condition and that the Authority


4932-1150-9345, v. 3                               5
will from time to time make or cause to be made all necessary and proper repairs, replacements
and renewals with respect to the Property, so that it will continue to be suitable for use as
contemplated by the Master Lease.

        Section 9.2 Other Governmental Charges and Utility Charges. In the event that the
Ground Lease Term extends beyond the date of termination of the Master Lease and in the event
that the Property or any portion thereof shall, for any reason, be deemed subject to taxation,
assessments or charges lawfully made by any governmental body which may be secured by a lien
against the Property, the Authority shall pay an amount equal to the amount of all such taxes,
assessments and governmental charges then due. With respect to special assessments or other
governmental charges which may be lawfully paid in installments over a period of years, the
Authority shall be obligated to pay such amounts only for such installments as are required to be
paid during the Ground Lease Term. In the event that the Ground Lease Term extends beyond the
date of termination of the Master Lease, the Authority shall also pay as the same respectively
become due, all gas, water, steam, electricity, heat, power, telephone, utility and other charges
incurred in the operation, maintenance, use, occupancy and upkeep of the Property.

        The Authority may, at the expense and in the name of the Authority, in good faith contest
any such taxes, assessments, utility and other charges and, in the event of any such contest, may
permit the taxes, assessments or other charges so contested to remain unpaid during the period of
such contest and any appeal therefrom. In the event that the Authority shall fail to pay any of the
foregoing items required by this Section 9.2 to be paid by the Authority, the City may (but shall
be under no obligation to) pay the same, which amounts, together with interest thereon at the rate
of ten percent (10%) per annum, the Authority agrees to pay.

                                           ARTICLE X

                             CONDEMNATION; DESTRUCTION

        If during the Ground Lease Term, title to, or the temporary or permanent use of the Property
or any portion thereof shall be taken under the exercise of the power of eminent domain by any
governmental body or by any person, firm or corporation acting under governmental authority, the
Authority and the City shall cooperate in the collection and disposition of the proceeds of
condemnation such that the net proceeds of such condemnation allocable to the Property and to
the Authority’s leasehold interest in the Property created hereunder shall be deposited and utilized
by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of the Master Lease and the Indenture and the net
proceeds of such condemnation allocable solely to the City’s reversionary interest in the Property
will be payable to the City. Except as otherwise provided in the Master Lease, if during the Ground
Lease Term, the Series 2025 Project or any material portion thereof, shall be destroyed (in whole
or in part), or damaged by fire or other casualty, the Net Proceeds of any insurance policy shall be
deposited and utilized by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of the Master Lease and
the Indenture.

                                          ARTICLE XI

  DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES; COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND RULES; OTHER
                             COVENANTS


4932-1150-9345, v. 3                             6
        Section 11.1 Further Assurances and Corrective Instruments. The City and the Authority
agree that they will, from time to time, execute, acknowledge and deliver, or cause to be executed,
acknowledged and delivered, such supplements hereto and such further instruments as may
reasonably be required for correcting any inadequate or incorrect description of the Property
hereby leased or intended so to be, or for carrying out the intention hereof.

        Section 11.2 City and Authority Representatives. Whenever under the provisions hereof
the approval of the City or the Authority is required, or the City or the Authority is required to take
some action at the request of the other, such approval or such request shall be given for the City
by the City Representative and for the Authority by the Authority Representative, and any party
hereto and the Trustee shall be authorized to act on any such approval or request.

        Section 11.3 Requirements of Law. During the Ground Lease Term, the City and the
Authority shall observe and comply promptly with all laws, ordinances, orders, rules and
regulations of the federal, state, county and city governments and of all courts or other
governmental authorities having jurisdiction over the Series 2025 Project or any portion thereof
and of all their respective departments, bureaus and officials, and of the insurance regulatory
agencies having jurisdiction over the Series 2025 Project, or any portion thereof, or any other body
exercising similar functions, and of all insurance companies writing policies covering the Series
2025 Project or any portion thereof, whether the same are in force at the commencement of the
Ground Lease Term or may in the future be passed, enacted or directed.

                                           ARTICLE XII

                           EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES

        Section 12.1 Events of Default Defined. The following shall be an “Event of Default”
under this Ground Lease: failure by the Authority to observe and perform any covenant, condition
or agreement on its part to be observed or performed hereunder, for a period of ninety (90) days
after written notice, specifying such failure and requesting that it be remedied, has been given to
the Authority and the Trustee by the City, unless the City shall agree in writing to an extension of
time prior to its expiration; provided, however, that if the failure stated in the notice cannot be
corrected within the applicable period, the City shall not unreasonably withhold its consent to an
extension of such time if corrective action shall be instituted by the Authority or the Trustee within
the applicable period and diligently pursued until the default is corrected.

        The foregoing provisions of this Section are subject to the following limitations: if, by
reason of force majeure, the Authority shall be unable in whole or in part to carry out any
agreement on its part herein contained, the Authority shall not be deemed in default during the
continuance of such inability. The Authority agrees, however, to remedy with all reasonable
dispatch the cause or causes preventing the Authority from carrying out its agreement; provided,
however, that the settlement of strikes, lockout and other industrial disturbances shall be entirely
within the discretion of the Authority, and the Authority shall not be required to make settlement
of strikes, lockouts and other industrial disturbances by acceding to the demands of the opposing
party or parties when such course is in the judgment of the Authority unfavorable to the Authority.
A copy of any notice required by this Section shall also be provided to the Trustee.



4932-1150-9345, v. 3                              7
        Section 12.2 Remedies on Default. Whenever any Event of Default referred to in Section
12.1 of this Ground Lease shall have happened and be continuing, the City, shall have the right, at
its option without any further demand or notice, to take whatever action at law or in equity may
appear necessary or desirable to enforce its rights under this Ground Lease.

         Section 12.3 No Remedy Exclusive. No remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the
City is intended to be exclusive, and every such remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition
to every other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity. No delay
or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon an Event of Default shall impair any
such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver thereof, but any such right and power may
be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient. In order to entitle the
City to exercise any remedy reserved in this Article XII, it shall not be necessary to give any notice,
other than such notice as may be required in this Article XII.

        Section 12.4 Agreement to Pay Attorney’s Fees and Expenses. In the event that either
party hereto shall default under any of the provisions hereof and the nondefaulting party shall
employ attorneys or incur other expenses for the enforcement of performance or observance of
any obligation or agreement on the part of the defaulting party herein contained, the defaulting
party agrees that it shall on demand therefor pay to the nondefaulting party the fees of such
attorneys and such other expenses so incurred by the nondefaulting party, to the extent that such
attorney’s fees and expenses may be determined to be reasonable by a court of competent
jurisdiction; provided, however, that the obligation of the City under this Section 12.4 shall be
subject to the availability of City Funds and the obligation of the Authority shall be subject to the
legal availability of such funds.

        Section 12.5 No Additional Waiver Implied by One Waiver. In the event that any
agreement contained herein should be breached by either party and thereafter waived by the other
party, such waiver shall be limited to the particular breach so waived and shall not be deemed to
waive any other breach hereunder.

       Section 12.6 No Termination of Ground Lease Term. Notwithstanding the remedies
provided above, the Ground Lease Term of this Ground Lease may not be terminated prior to the
end of the Ground Lease Term described in Article IV hereof by reason of an Event of Default
hereunder.

                                          ARTICLE XIII

           INSURANCE, INDEMNIFICATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

        Section 13.1 Insurance. The Authority hereby covenants and agrees to at all times
provide, maintain and keep in force or cause to be kept in force such insurance as set forth in
Article IX of the Master Lease with respect to the Series 2025 Project.

         Section 13.2 Reserved.

        Section 13.3 Workers’ Compensation Coverage. Unless the City is otherwise required to
carry such insurance pursuant to the Master Lease, at all times from the date hereof until the end
of the Master Lease Term, the Authority shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, workers’


4932-1150-9345, v. 3                              8
compensation coverage with respect to officers, agents and employees of the Authority working
in, on or about the Series 2025 Project, including coverage for occupational diseases.

        Section 13.4 Indemnification Covenants. To the extent of the net proceeds of the
insurance coverage of the Authority, the Authority shall and hereby agrees to indemnify and save
the City harmless against and from all claims, by or on behalf of any person, firm, corporation or
other legal entity arising from the conduct or management of, or from any work or thing done on,
the Series 2025 Project during the Lease Term from: (i) any condition of the Series 2025 Project
and (ii) any act or negligence of the Authority or of any of its agents, contractors or employees or
any violation of law or the breach of any covenant or warranty hereunder. To the extent of available
moneys as set forth above, or in the event the Authority is self-insured, or the insurance coverage
has a deductible amount, then from moneys to be appropriated under budget proceedings for future
years, if such appropriations are then made, the Authority shall indemnify and save the City
harmless, from any such claim arising as aforesaid from (i) or (ii) above, or in connection with any
action or proceeding brought thereon and, upon notice from the City, shall defend it in any action
or proceeding.

        In exchange for the Authority’s agreement to indemnify the City as provided in this
Section, the City hereby agrees to assert any cause of action that it might individually have against
any third parties for the benefit of the Authority. Furthermore, in no event will the City voluntarily
settle or consent to the settlement of any proceeding arising out of any claim applicable to the
Series 2025 Project without the written consent of the Authority.


       Section 13.5 Environmental Matters. The City hereby makes the following covenants,
warranties, representations and promises with respect to the Property for the benefit of the
Authority, the Trustee and the owner of the Bonds:

                 (a)    The City will comply with any and all applicable federal, State, and local
         laws, rules, regulations or orders with respect to the discharge and remediations of any
         hazardous or toxic wastes, and shall pay, to the extent permitted by law and solely from
         and to the extent of City Funds (as defined in the Master Lease) at its sole cost and expense
         when due, the cost of any future reasonable and appropriate remediations of any such
         wastes, and shall take appropriate steps to keep the Property free of any lien imposed
         pursuant to such laws, rules, regulations or orders.

                  (b)     In the event that the Environmental Protection Agency, any agency of the
         State, or any other federal, State or local governmental agency should rightfully initiate
         any action for the remediation of any “hazardous substance,” as that term is defined in Title
         42 of the United States Code, Section 960 1(14), from the Property, the City hereby agrees,
         to the extent permitted by law and solely from and to the extent of City Funds, to indemnify
         and hold harmless the Authority, the Trustee and the owners of the Bonds from any
         liability, costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred in such action.

                 (c)    To the best knowledge of the City and after reasonable investigation, the
         Property does not contain any hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or materials as defined
         in any applicable federal, State or local laws or regulations.


4932-1150-9345, v. 3                              9
                                            ARTICLE XIV

                                          MISCELLANEOUS

       Section 14.1 Notices. All notices, certificates or other communications hereunder shall
be sufficiently given and shall be deemed given when delivered or mailed by registered mail,
postage prepaid, addressed as follows: if to the Authority, Local Building Authority of the City of
Holladay, Utah, 4580 South 2300 East, Holladay, Utah 84117, Attention: Chair; if to the City,
4580 South 2300 East, Holladay, Utah 84117, Mayor; and if to the Trustee, as provided in the
Master Lease. The Authority, the City and the Trustee, may, by notice given hereunder, designate
any further or different addresses to which subsequent notices, certificates or other
communications shall be sent.

       Section 14.2 Binding Effect. This Ground Lease shall inure to the benefit of and shall be
binding upon the Authority, the City and their respective successors and assigns.

        Section 14.3 Severability. In the event any provision of this Ground Lease shall be held
invalid or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not invalidate
or render unenforceable any other provision hereof.

       Section 14.4 Amendments, Changes and Modifications. (a) Except as provided in
subsection (b) below, subsequent to the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds and prior to their
payment in full (or provision for the payment thereof having been made in accordance with the
provisions of the Indenture), and except as otherwise herein expressly provided, this Ground Lease
may not be effectively amended, changed, modified, altered or terminated without the written
consent of Trustee.

                 (b)     Other real property (the “Substitute Property”) may be substituted for the
         real property that is the subject to this Ground Lease, the description of which is contained
         on Exhibit A hereto, as long as the following conditions are satisfied:

                        (i)       a property description of the Substitute Property shall be delivered
                  to the Authority and the Trustee and a new Exhibit A containing a legal description
                  of the Substitute Property shall be attached hereto;

                      (ii)       a title insurance policy satisfying the requirements of Section
                  2.4(c)(v)(A) of the General Indenture shall be delivered to the Trustee;

                      (iii)      a certificate signed by a City Representative to the effect that the
                  Substitute Property is suitable for use as a city hall and that the Substitute Property
                  has all means of ingress and egress so that the city hall may be accessed;

                      (iv)        an opinion of the City Attorney of the City addressed to the Trustee
                  and the City to the effect that the provisions of this Section 14.(4)(b) have been
                  satisfied and that any exceptions appearing in the Title Report to the Substitute
                  Property will not interfere with the operation of the Series 2025 Project or impair
                  the marketability of the title to Series 2025 Project or the general security provided
                  for holders of the Series 2025 Bonds issued under the Indenture; and


4932-1150-9345, v. 3                                10
                      (v)        and all documents relating to the substitution of property shall be
                  properly recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder.

       Section 14.5 Execution in Counterparts. This Ground Lease may be simultaneously
executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which shall constitute
but one and the same instrument.

       Section 14.6 Applicable Law. This Ground Lease shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State.

       Section 14.7 Captions. The captions or headings in this Ground Lease are for
convenience only and in no way define, limit or describe the scope or intent of any provisions or
sections of this Ground Lease.

        Section 14.8 Assignment. This Ground Lease may be assigned and reassigned by the
Authority and the Authority’s interest in the Property transferred in accordance with the terms
hereof and of the Master Lease. This Ground Lease may not be assigned by the City for any reason.

       Section 14.9 No Merger. The parties hereto agree that the doctrine of merger shall not
operate to destroy or terminate the leasehold interest granted to the Authority under this Ground
Lease.




4932-1150-9345, v. 3                              11
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Authority has caused this Ground Lease to be executed
with its corporate seal hereunto affixed and attested by its duly authorized officers. The City has
executed this Ground Lease in its name with its seal hereunto affixed and attested by its duly
authorized officers. All of the above occurred as of the date first above written.

                                             LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY
                                             OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH


(SEAL)

                                             By: ________________________________
                                                         Chair/President


ATTEST AND COUNTERSIGN:




By: _________________________________
           Secretary-Treasurer




4932-1150-9345, v. 3                           S-1
                                    THE CITY OF HOLLADAY



                                    By: ________________________________
                                                    Mayor
(SEAL)



ATTEST AND COUNTERSIGN:



By: _________________________________
             City Recorder




4932-1150-9345, v. 3                    S-2
STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On __________, 2025 the foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me by
__________ and __________, the Chair/President and Secretary-Treasurer, respectively, of the
Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah.




                                           ____________________________________
                                                     NOTARY PUBLIC




STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

      On __________, 2025 the foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me by
__________ and __________, the Mayor and City Recorder, respectively, of the City of Holladay,
Utah.




                                           ____________________________________
                                                     NOTARY PUBLIC




4932-1150-9345, v. 3                         S-3
                                            EXHIBIT A

                                  DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

         A description of that certain real property located in Salt Lake County, Utah, to wit:




4932-1150-9345, v. 3                             A-1
                              EXHIBIT D

                       MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT




4923-6281-6609, v. 3             D-1
                                 MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT


                                    Dated as of ________, 2025


                                             between


           LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH,
                                  as Lessor

               A Nonprofit Corporation Organized Under the Laws of the State of Utah


                                                and


                                   THE CITY OF HOLLADAY,
                                          as Lessee

                          A Body Politic Existing Within the State of Utah


       Various interests of the Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, in this
Master Lease Agreement have been assigned to [TRUSTEE], as Trustee under the General
Indenture of Trust, as amended and supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture of Trust, each
dated as of the date hereof and by and between the Local Building Authority of the City of
Holladay, Utah, and [TRUSTEE], as Trustee, and is subject to the security interest of [TRUSTEE],
as Trustee under said Indenture.




4924-3182-7297, v. 3
                                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS



ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS ............................................................................................................2

ARTICLE II REPRESENTATIONS, COVENANTS AND WARRANTIES ................................8

Section 2.1.        Representations, Covenants and Warranties of the City. .........................................8
Section 2.2.        Representations, Covenants and Warranties of the Authority. ................................9

ARTICLE III DEMISING CLAUSE.............................................................................................10

ARTICLE IV LEASE TERM ........................................................................................................11

Section 4.1.        Commencement of Lease Term. ............................................................................11
Section 4.2.        Termination of Lease Term. ..................................................................................12
Section 4.3.        Effect on the City of Expiration or Termination of the Term of this Master Lease.
                        12
Section 4.4.        Revised Schedule of Base Rentals and Option Price. ............................................13

ARTICLE V ENJOYMENT OF PROJECTS................................................................................13

ARTICLE VI PAYMENTS BY THE CITY .................................................................................13

Section 6.1.        Payments to Constitute Current Expenses of the City. ..........................................13
Section 6.2.        Payment of Base Rentals. ......................................................................................14
Section 6.3.        Payment of Additional Rentals with Respect to the Projects. ...............................16
Section 6.4.        Manner of Payment. ...............................................................................................18
Section 6.5.        Expression of Need for the Project by the City; Determination of Purchase Price.
                    18
Section 6.6.        Nonappropriation. ..................................................................................................19
Section 6.7.        Application of Base Rentals, Additional Rentals and Purchase Option Price. ......19
Section 6.8.        Request for Appropriation. ....................................................................................19

ARTICLE VII ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION OF PROJECTS..................................20

Section 7.1.        Agreement to Acquire and Construct the Projects.................................................20
Section 7.2.        Application of Proceeds of Series 2025 Bonds......................................................21
Section 7.3.        Disbursements from the Construction Fund. .........................................................21
Section 7.4.        Establishment of Completion Date; Disbursement of Balance of Construction
                    Fund. ......................................................................................................................21
Section 7.5.        Investment of Construction Fund, Bond Fund, Rebate Fund and Debt Service
                    Reserve Fund Moneys............................................................................................22
Section 7.6.        Design Contracts and Construction Contracts. ......................................................22
Section 7.7.        Defaults Under Design Contracts or Construction Contracts. ...............................22
Section 7.8.        Contractor’s Performance and Payment Bonds. ....................................................23
Section 7.9.        Contractor’s General Public Liability and Property Damage Insurance. ..............23


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                                                   i
Section 7.10. Contractor’s Builder’s Risk Completed Value Insurance. .....................................23
Section 7.11. Contractor’s Worker’s Compensation Insurance. ..................................................24
Section 7.12. Proceeds of Certain Insurance Policies and Performance Bonds. .........................24

ARTICLE VIII TITLE TO THE PROJECTS; SECURITY INTEREST ......................................24

Section 8.1.         Title to the Projects. ...............................................................................................24
Section 8.2.         Security Interest. ....................................................................................................24

ARTICLE IX MAINTENANCE; TAXES; INSURANCE AND OTHER CHARGES ...............25

Section 9.1.         Maintenance of the Projects by the City. ...............................................................25
Section 9.2.         Modification of the Projects...................................................................................25
Section 9.3.         Taxes; Other Governmental Charges and Utility Charges ....................................26
Section 9.4.         Provisions Respecting Insurance ...........................................................................27
Section 9.5.         Public Liability Insurance ......................................................................................27
Section 9.6.         Worker’s Compensation Coverage. .......................................................................28
Section 9.7.         Advances. ...............................................................................................................28
Section 9.8.         Failure to Provide Insurance. .................................................................................28

ARTICLE X DAMAGE, DESTRUCTION AND CONDEMNATION; USE OF NET
PROCEEDS ...................................................................................................................................28

Section 10.1. Damage. Destruction and Condemnation. .............................................................29
Section 10.2. Obligation of the City to Repair and Replace a Project. ........................................29
Section 10.3. Covenant to Seek Appropriation of Insufficiency of Net Proceeds; Discharge of
              the Obligation of the City to Repair and Replace the Projects. .............................29
Section 10.4. Cooperation of the Authority and the Trustee. ......................................................30
Section 10.5. Condemnation of Property Owned by the City......................................................30

ARTICLE XI DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES; COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND
RULES; OTHER COVENANTS ..................................................................................................30

Section 11.1.        Disclaimer or Warranties. ......................................................................................31
Section 11.2.        Further Assurances and Corrective Instruments. ...................................................31
Section 11.3.        City and Authority Representatives. ......................................................................31
Section 11.4.        Requirements of Law. ............................................................................................31
Section 11.5.        Inspection of the Projects. ......................................................................................31
Section 11.6.        Granting of Easements and Releases. ....................................................................31
Section 11.7.        Issuance of Refunding Bonds. ...............................................................................32
Section 11.8.        Issuance of Additional Bonds. ...............................................................................32

ARTICLE XII CONVEYANCE OF THE PROJECTS.................................................................32

Section 12.1.        Conveyance of the Projects. ...................................................................................32
Section 12.2.        Release of a Project Upon Payment of Related Series of Bonds. ..........................33
Section 12.3.        Conveyance on Purchase of Projects. ....................................................................33
Section 12.4.        Relative Position of Option and Indenture.............................................................34


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                                                  ii
ARTICLE XIII ASSIGNMENT, SUBLEASING, INDEMNIFICATION AND SELLING

Section 13.1.        The Authority to Grant Security Interest to Trustee. .............................................34
Section 13.2.        Assignment and Subleasing by the City. ...............................................................34
Section 13.3.        Release and Indemnification Covenants. ...............................................................35
Section 13.4.        References to Bonds Ineffective After Bonds Paid. ..............................................35
Section 13.5.        Installation of the Furnishings and Machinery of the City. ...................................35
Section 13.6.        Equipment Purchased with Proceeds of the Bonds................................................36

ARTICLE XIV EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES ......................................................36

Section 14.1.        Events of Default Defined. ....................................................................................36
Section 14.2.        Remedies on Default. .............................................................................................37
Section 14.3.        Limitations on Remedies. ......................................................................................37
Section 14.4.        No Remedy Exclusive............................................................................................37
Section 14.5.        Agreement to Pay Attorneys’ Fees and Expenses. ................................................38
Section 14.6.        No Additional Waiver Implied by One Waiver. ....................................................38

ARTICLE XV MISCELLANEOUS..............................................................................................38

Section 15.1.  Lease Term.............................................................................................................38
Section 15.2.  Notices. ..................................................................................................................38
Section 15.3.  Binding Effect. .......................................................................................................38
Section 15.4.  Severability. ...........................................................................................................38
Section 15.5.  Amounts Remaining in the Bond Fund and Debt Service Reserve Fund;
               Dissolution. ............................................................................................................39
Section 15.6. Amendments, Changes and Modifications. ...........................................................39
Section 15.7. Execution in Counterparts......................................................................................39
Section 15.8. Net Lease. ..............................................................................................................39
Section 15.9. Applicable Law. .....................................................................................................39
Section 15.10. Captions. ................................................................................................................39
Section 15.11. No Personal Liability. ............................................................................................39

EXHIBIT A PROJECT DESCRIPTION ................................................................................... A-1

EXHIBIT B PROJECT SITE......................................................................................................B-1

EXHIBIT C FORM OF REQUISITION ....................................................................................C-1

EXHIBIT D BASE RENTAL PAYMENT SCHEDULE ......................................................... D-1




4924-3182-7297, v. 3                                                 iii
                                MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT

        THIS MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT (the “Master Lease”) dated as of ________, 2025,
entered into by and between the LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
HOLLADAY, UTAH (the “Authority”), as lessor hereunder, a nonprofit corporation duly
organized, existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Utah, and also acting as
grantor under a General Indenture of Trust of even date herewith (the “General Indenture”), and
the CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH (the “City”), as lessee hereunder, a body corporate duly
existing as such within the State under the Constitution and laws of the State of Utah:

                                       W I TN E S S E T H:

       WHEREAS, the City is a body politic duly existing as such within the State under the
Constitution and laws of the State; and

       WHEREAS, the City has previously authorized and directed the creation of the Authority
pursuant to the provisions of a resolution (the “Creating Resolution”) by the City; and

        WHEREAS, the Authority has been duly and regularly created, established and is
organized and existing as a nonprofit corporation under and by virtue of the provisions of the laws
of the State of Utah, including, in particular, the provisions of the Local Building Authority Act,
Title 17D, Chapter 2, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended (the “Building Authority Act”), and
the Utah Revised Nonprofit Corporation Act, Title 16, Chapter 6a, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as
amended (the “Nonprofit Corporation Act”); and

        WHEREAS, under the articles of incorporation of the Authority (the “Articles”) and the
Building Authority Act, the objects and purposes for which the Authority has been founded and
incorporated are to acquire, construct, improve or extend any improvements, facilities or properties
(whether real or personal) and appurtenances to them which the City is authorized or permitted by
law to acquire, including, but not limited to, public buildings or other structures of every nature or
any joint or partial interest in the same, which improvements, facilities, properties and
appurtenances need not be situated within the boundaries of the City (collectively, the “Projects”)
and to finance or refinance the costs thereof on behalf of the City in accordance with the procedures
and subject to the limitations of the Building Authority Act, the Local Government Bonding Act,
Title 11, Chapter 14, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended and the Refunding Bond Act, Title
11, Chapter 27, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended (collectively, the “Act”) in order to
accomplish the public purposes for which the City exists; and

        WHEREAS, the Authority is possessed under the Articles and the Act of all powers set
forth in the Act, the Constitution and other laws of the State of Utah, including, without limitation,
the power to acquire, own, hold, lease and improve real and personal property and to enter into
agreements providing for a lease, mortgage or other conveyance of real and personal property; and

       WHEREAS, the Authority desires to issue its Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025, in the
aggregate principal amount of $[PAR] (the “Series 2025 Bonds”) to (a) finance all or a portion of
the costs of (i) the acquisition and construction of a park and recreation facility and all related
improvements and (ii) the renovation, retrofit and improvements of a city hall, including seismic


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                              1
upgrades and related improvements (the “Series 2025 Project”) and (b) pay costs associated with
the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds; and

        WHEREAS, the City has reviewed and approved (i) the estimated costs of the Series 2025
Project and (ii) the plans and specifications for the Series 2025 Project; and

        WHEREAS, the City is the owner of the fee simple title to the site wherein the Series 2025
Project will be located (the “Project Site”) and has agreed to lease the Project Site to the Authority
pursuant to a Ground Lease Agreement dated as of ________, 2025 (the “Ground Lease”); and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to lease, as lessee, on an annually renewable basis, the Series
2025 Project and any other Projects hereafter acquired by the Authority for lease to the City and
the Authority desires to lease, as lessor, the Series 2025 Project and any other Projects hereafter
acquired under the terms and provisions set forth in this Master Lease; and

       WHEREAS, under the provisions of a resolution adopted on September 18, 2025 (the “City
Resolution”), the City has authorized and approved the execution of this Master Lease, the General
Indenture and a First Supplemental Indenture of Trust of even date herewith (together with the
General Indenture, the “Indenture”) between the Authority and [TRUSTEE], as trustee, and the
issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of a resolution adopted on September 18, 2025 (the
“Authority Resolution”), the governing board of the Authority (the “Governing Board”) has
authorized, approved and directed the execution of this Master Lease and the Indenture and the
issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds; and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Articles,
the Authority proposes to undertake the financing or refinancing of Projects (including the
financing of the Project) and the leasing of such Projects to the City under the terms and provisions
of this Master Lease; and

       WHEREAS, the Authority may finance or refinance all or a portion of the Costs of
Acquisition and Construction of other Projects through the issuance of its Bonds under the General
Indenture; and

        WHEREAS, all Bonds issued under the General Indenture will be secured as provided in
the General Indenture including by means of the Security Documents and a pledge and assignment
of this Master Lease and certain revenues and receipts derived by the Authority from the Projects,
all as more fully set forth in the Indenture.

        NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants
herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:

                                            ARTICLE I

                                          DEFINITIONS




4924-3182-7297, v. 3                              2
         All terms defined in Article I of the General Indenture and Article I of the First
Supplemental Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, shall have the same meaning in this
Master Lease. In addition, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined in this Article
I shall, for all purposes of this Master Lease and the Indenture, have the meaning herein specified.

       “Act” means collectively, the Building Authority Act, the Local Government Bonding Act,
the Nonprofit Corporation Act and, to the extent applicable, the Refunding Bond Act.

        “Additional Rentals” means the cost of all taxes, insurance premiums and expenses payable
by, and fees and expenses of, the Trustee and its counsel with respect to the Bonds and other
charges and costs which the City assumes or agrees to pay exclusively from City Funds under
Section 6.3 of this Master Lease, together with all interest and penalties that may accrue thereon
in the event that the City shall fail to pay the same, as specifically set forth herein, including all
Security Instrument Repayment Obligations, Security Instrument Costs, Reserve Instrument
Repayment Obligations and Reserve Instrument Costs.

       “Amendment to Master Lease” means any amendment to this Master Lease between the
Authority, as lessor, and the City, as lessee, entered into pursuant to and in compliance with the
provisions of Section 15.6 of this Master Lease and Article XII of the General Indenture.

       “Authority” means the Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, a nonprofit
corporation organized under the laws of the State, acting in the capacity of lessor under this Master
Lease and as grantor under the Indenture, and any successor to the duties and functions of the
Authority.

        “Authority Representative” means the Chair/President, Secretary-Treasurer and any other
person or persons at any time designated to act on behalf of the Authority for purposes of
performing any act on behalf of the Authority with respect to a Project by a written certificate
furnished to the City and the Trustee containing the specimen signature of such person or persons
and signed on behalf of the Authority by any duly authorized officer of the Authority. Such
certificate may designate an alternate or alternates. The Authority Representative may be an
officer or employee of the Authority or the City.

       “Base Rentals” means the payments payable by the City exclusively from City Funds
pursuant to Section 6.2 hereof during the Lease Term hereof, which constitute the payments
payable by the City for and in consideration of the right of use of the Projects during such Lease
Term and the purchase option granted herein.

      “Building Authority Act” means the Local Building Authority Act, Title 17D, Chapter 2,
Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended.

         “Business Day” means a legal business day on which banking business is transacted in the
cities in which the Trustee or Paying Agent has its principal corporate trust offices.

        “City” means the City of Holladay, a body politic duly established and existing under and
by virtue of the Constitution and laws of the State, and any entity succeeding to its rights and
obligations under this Master Lease. Any reference herein to the “governing body” of the City



4924-3182-7297, v. 3                              3
shall refer to the City Council and to any successor governing body as authorized by applicable
law.

       “City Funds” means all revenues and receipts derived by the City from the operation of the
Projects, including, without limitation, funds of the City legally available therefor, all to the extent
the same are budgeted and appropriated by the governing body of the City for the purpose of
paying Base Rentals, Additional Rentals or the Purchase Option Price hereunder during the Lease
Term in which this Master Lease may be in effect.

        “City Representative” means the Mayor, City Manager and City Recorder of the City and
any other person at any time designated to act on behalf of the City for purposes of performing
any act with respect to a Project by a written certificate furnished to the Authority and the Trustee
containing the specimen signature of such person and signed on behalf of the City or any duly
authorized officer thereof. Such certificate may designate an alternate or alternates. The City
Representative may be an officer or employee of the Authority or the City.

        “Completion Date” means the date of completion of acquisition and/or construction of a
Project, within the meaning of Section 17D-2-401(2) of the Building Authority Act, and of final
acceptance by the City of such Project.

       “Construction Contract” means any contract or agreement relating to the acquisition,
development or construction of a Project or portion thereof.

       “Contractor” means that party to a Construction Contract or Design Contract providing
services related to a Project or portion thereof.

         “Costs of Acquisition and Construction” means:

               (1)     obligations of the City or the Authority incurred for labor, materials and
         equipment in connection with a Project or the cost of acquiring a Project;

                (2)      the cost of payment, performance or other bonds and any and all types of
         insurance (including but not limited to title insurance) that may be necessary or appropriate
         to have in effect during the course of a Project;

                 (3)     all costs of planning and designing a Project, including architectural,
         planning, engineering, legal and fiscal advisors’ fees and the costs incurred by the City or
         the Authority for test borings, surveys, estimates, plans and specifications and preliminary
         investigations therefor, and for supervising construction, as well as for the performance of
         all other duties required by or consequent to the proper and timely completion of such
         Project;

                 (4)    payment of expenses incurred in seeking to enforce any remedy against any
         contractor or subcontractor in respect of any default under a contract relating to the
         acquisition and construction of a Project;




4924-3182-7297, v. 3                               4
                 (5)     the cost of equipment and furnishings for a Project, the cost of acquiring a
         site for a Project (or any interest therein) and all other costs authorized by the Building
         Authority Act which are considered to be a part of the costs of a Project in accordance with
         generally accepted accounting principles, including but not limited to interest accruing on
         the Bonds during the period required to complete the acquisition and construction of such
         Project and for not more than twelve (12) months after the Completion Date;

                 (6)     any sums required to reimburse the Authority or the City for advances by
         either of them for any of the above items or for any other costs incurred and for work done
         by either of them which are properly chargeable to a capital account in respect of a Project;

                (7)     such amounts as the governing body of the Authority shall find to be
         necessary to provide necessary working capital in connection with a Project; and

                 (8)    all expenses connected with the authorization, sale and issuance of a series
         of Bonds and the refunding of any Bonds, including the initial fees of the Trustee, escrow
         agent, rating agency fees, bond insurance premiums, fees for outside attorneys or
         accountants, whose opinions are required to obtain the issuance of the Bonds, municipal
         advisors’ fees and commissions and printing costs, those amounts as the Authority shall
         find necessary to establish reserves and maintenance, repair, replacement, and contingency
         funds and accounts, and the interest on Bonds for a reasonable time prior to, during, and
         for a reasonable period of time after completion of a Project.

       “Design Contract” means any contract or agreement relating to the architecture, design,
engineering or planning of a Project or portion thereof.

         “Event of Default” means one or more events of default as defined in Section 14.1 herein.

         “Event of Nonappropriation” means a failure by the City to renew this Master Lease by
failing or refusing to budget and appropriate sufficient City Funds for the payment of all or any
part of the Base Rentals and Additional Rentals for any Renewal Term hereof as set forth in Section
4.1 and Section 6.6 hereof. The existence or nonexistence of an Event of Nonappropriation shall
be determined as of the date on which the governing body of the City fails or refuses to adopt a
final budget in accordance with applicable law which appropriates sufficient moneys to pay such
Base Rentals and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals for the next succeeding Renewal Term
as contemplated by Section 4.1 hereof or on any earlier or later date on which the Trustee receives
written notice from the City that the governing body of the City has failed or refused to make such
appropriations and the term of this Master Lease will not be renewed; provided, however, that the
Trustee, with the consent of any Security Instrument Issuer, may waive any Event of
Nonappropriation which is cured by the City within a reasonable time if, in the Trustee’s judgment,
such waiver is in the best interests of the Bondholders, except as otherwise provided in Section 4.1
hereof or as otherwise provided by Supplemental Indenture. Notwithstanding anything herein to
the contrary, the City’s failure or refusal to adopt a final budget in accordance with applicable law
within the time provided by Section 4.1 hereof which appropriates sufficient moneys to pay such
Base Rentals and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals for the next succeeding Renewal Term
shall constitute an Event of Nonappropriation.



4924-3182-7297, v. 3                              5
        “Fiscal Year” means the twelve-month period used from time to time by the City for its
financial accounting purposes (currently July 1 to June 30).

        “Force Majeure” means, without limitation, the following: acts of God; strikes, lockouts or
other industrial disturbances; acts of public enemies and terrorists; orders or restraints of any kind
of the government of the United States of America or of the State or any of their departments,
agencies or officials, or any civil or military authority; insurrections; riots; landslides; earthquakes;
storms; droughts; floods; explosions; breakage or accidents to machinery, transmission pipes or
canals; or any other cause or event not reasonably within the control of the City and not due to its
negligence.

      “Ground Lease” means the Ground Lease Agreement dated as of ________, 2025, by and
between the City and the Authority.

       “Ground Lease Term” means the duration of the leasehold estate created in the Project Site
as provided in Article IV of the Ground Lease.

       “Independent Counsel” means an attorney duly admitted to the practice of law before the
highest court of the State and who is not a full-time employee of the Authority, the City or the
Trustee.

        “Lease Term” means the duration of the leasehold estate created in the Projects as provided
in Article IV of this Master Lease.

       “Local Government Bonding Act” means the Local Government Bonding Act, Title 11,
Chapter 14, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended.

        “Net Proceeds,” when used with respect to (i) proceeds from policies of insurance required
hereby (including any self-insurance), (ii) any condemnation award, (iii) proceeds resulting from
a default under a contract relating to the acquisition and construction of a Project (including
liquidated damages, if any), or (iv) the proceeds of any liquidation of all or portions of a Project,
means the amount remaining after deducting all expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys’
fees and costs) incurred in the collection of such proceeds or award from the gross proceeds
thereof.

       “Nonprofit Corporation Act” means the Utah Revised Nonprofit Corporation Act, Title 16,
Chapter 6a, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended.

         “Original Term” means the initial portion of the Lease Term which terminates on June 30,
2021.

         “Permitted Encumbrances” means, as of any particular time, (i) liens for taxes and
assessments not then delinquent, or which the City may, pursuant to the provisions of Article IX
of this Master Lease, permit to remain unpaid; (ii) this Master Lease, including any security
interests granted herein or therein; (iii) utility access and other easements and rights of way,
restrictions and exceptions which the City Representative and the Authority Representative certify
in writing to the Trustee will not interfere with the operation of the Projects or impair the
marketability of title to the Projects or the general security provided for the Bondholders of the


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                               6
Bonds; (iv) the Indenture, the Security Documents and related financing statements; (v) the
ownership interests of the City in any real or personal property which is the subject of any lease
between the City, as lessor and the Authority, as lessee that is entered into in furtherance of any
Project; (vi) any mechanic’s, laborer’s, materialmen’s, supplier’s or vendor’s lien or right in
respect thereof if payment is not yet due under the contract in question; (vii) such minor defects,
irregularities, encumbrances and clouds on title as normally exist with respect to property of the
general character of the Projects and as do not materially impair the operation or marketability of
title to the Projects; and (viii) any items contained in a Title Insurance Policy delivered in
accordance with Sections 2.4, 2.13 or 2.14 of the General Indenture.

        “Project or Projects” has the meaning ascribed to that term in the Indenture and includes
the Series 2025 Project.

        “Project Site” means the real property, as more fully described in Exhibit B hereof, where
the Project is to be constructed.

         “Purchase Option Price” means an amount payable, at the option of the City, at any time
for the purpose of terminating the payment obligation of the City under this Master Lease with
respect to a Project and purchasing the Authority’s interest in such Project, which amount, when
added to the amounts then on deposit in the Bond Fund and the subaccount within the Debt Service
Reserve Fund with respect to such Project (other than moneys held by the Trustee for the payment
of the Bonds under the Indenture not deemed Outstanding), shall be sufficient (i) to pay, defease,
retire and/or redeem all the Outstanding Bonds of the Series of Bonds issued to finance or refinance
the particular Project in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture (including, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the principal of and interest to maturity or earliest
applicable redemption date of the relevant Bonds and premium, if any, thereon, the expenses of
defeasance and/or redemption, including escrow agent fees, if any, and fee and expenses of the
City, the Authority and the Trustee and all Security Instrument Costs, Security Instrument
Repayment Obligations, Reserve Instrument Costs and Reserve Instrument Repayment
Obligations); (ii) in case of redemption, to make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the
giving of the required notice of redemption; and (iii) to make any necessary payment of rebate
with respect to any Bonds to be paid, defeased, retired and/or redeemed.

      “Refunding Bond Act” means the Utah Refunding Bond Act, Title 11, Chapter 27, Utah
Code Annotated 1953, as amended.

        “Renewal Terms” means the optional Renewal Terms of the Lease Term as provided in
Article IV of this Master Lease.

       “Rentals” means all Base Rentals and Additional Rentals payable during the Lease Term
under this Master Lease.

       “Series 2025 Bonds” means the Authority’s Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025, issued in
an aggregate principal amount of $[PAR] herein authorized.

       “Series 2025 Project” means, collectively, [PROJECT] (as more fully described in Exhibit
A hereto).



4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             7
                                               ARTICLE II

                       REPRESENTATIONS, COVENANTS AND WARRANTIES

       Section 2.1.       Representations, Covenants and Warranties of the City. The City
represents, covenants, and warrants for the benefit of the Authority and the Trustee as follows:

                 (a)      The City is a body corporate duly existing as such within the State under
         the Constitution and laws of the State. Under the provisions of the Constitution and laws
         of the State, the City is authorized to enter into the transactions contemplated by this Master
         Lease and to carry out its obligations hereunder. The City has duly authorized and approved
         the execution and delivery of this Master Lease. The City agrees that it will do or cause to
         be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence.

                 (b)     The Authority has by this Master Lease leased the Project and may pursuant
         to this Master Lease lease other Projects to the City as hereinafter provided. It is understood
         by the parties hereto that the Authority has all rights, title and interest in the Project, subject
         to Permitted Encumbrances.

                (c)     During the Lease Term, the Project will at all times be used for purposes
         which are within and consistent with the legal rights, powers and authority of the Authority
         and the City under the Constitution and laws of the State.

                (d)      The City is not in default under any of the provisions of the laws of the State
         which default would affect its existence or its powers referred to in Section 2.l(a) hereof.
         Neither the execution and delivery of this Master Lease nor the issuance and sale by the
         Authority of its Bonds, nor the performance by the City of its obligations under this Master
         Lease will constitute on the part of the City a breach of or a default under, any existing law,
         court or administrative regulation, decree, order or any material agreement, indenture,
         mortgage, lease or any other instrument to which the City is subject or by which it is or
         may be bound.

                 (e)     There is no action, suit or proceeding pending or, to the best knowledge of
         the City, threatened, or any basis therefor, before any court or administrative agency which
         may adversely affect the City or ability of the City to perform its obligations under this
         Master Lease. All authorizations, consents and approvals of governmental bodies or
         agencies required in connection with the execution and delivery by the City of this Master
         Lease or in connection with the carrying out by the City of its obligations under this Master
         Lease have been obtained.

                (f)     The Project constitutes a “project” within the meaning of the Building
         Authority Act.

                (g)    The acquisition and construction of the Project will be accomplished in
         accordance with all applicable laws and the construction and financing of the Project is
         necessary and appropriate for accomplishing one or more of the authorized functions or


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                                 8
         public purposes of the City and is suitable for such purpose and in furtherance of the
         purposes of the City and the best interests of the citizens of the City.

                 (h)    To the extent allowed by law, if an Event of Nonappropriation has occurred,
         the City shall not purchase, lease or rent substantially equivalent buildings or building
         space for the City’s or Authority’s use for functions that are substantially the same as those
         functions the Series 2025 Project has been used for until all of the principal and interest on
         the Series 2025 Bonds has been paid in full.

                (i)    No voter approval was sought on the question of whether general obligation
         bonds of the City should be issued to finance the Project.

       Section 2.2.       Representations, Covenants and Warranties of the Authority. The
Authority represents, covenants, and warrants for the benefit of the City and the Trustee as follows:

                 (a)     The Authority is a nonprofit corporation duly incorporated and in good
         standing under the laws of the State and is duly qualified to transact business in the State,
         is not in violation of any provision of its articles of incorporation or its bylaws, has the
         corporate power and authority to enter into this Master Lease and has duly authorized and
         approved the execution and delivery of this Master Lease by proper corporate action.

                (b)      The Authority agrees that, so long as this Master Lease has not been
         terminated, it will maintain its corporate existence, will continue to be a corporation in
         good standing under the laws of the State, will not dissolve or otherwise dispose of all or
         substantially all of its assets, except as provided in this Master Lease (or similar leases),
         and will not consolidate with or merge into another corporation or permit one or more other
         corporations to consolidate with or merge into it.

                 (c)    The Authority will cause the Project to be acquired and constructed (subject
         to Permitted Encumbrances) and will complete or cause to be completed the acquisition
         and construction of the Project in accordance with the plans and specifications therefor.
         The Authority will lease the Project to the City as hereinafter provided. It is understood by
         the parties hereto that the Authority shall have all rights, title and interest in the Project,
         subject to Permitted Encumbrances.

                  (d)     The Authority will not pledge the Base Rentals, the Additional Rentals,
         Purchase Option Price or any of its other rights under this Master Lease and will not assign
         its interest in or encumber the Project except as provided hereunder or under the Indenture
         and the Security Documents. All property and moneys received by the Authority from the
         City will, so long as no Event of Nonappropriation or no Event of Default shall occur, be
         applied for the benefit of the City, and all property and moneys received by the Authority
         under this Master Lease with respect to the Project and under the Indenture for the
         Bondholders of the Bonds will be applied for the proportionate benefit of said Bondholders.

                (e)     Neither the execution and delivery hereof, nor the fulfillment of or
         compliance with the terms and conditions hereof, nor the consummation of the transactions
         contemplated hereby conflicts with or results in a breach of the terms, conditions or
         provisions of any restriction or any agreement or instrument to which the Authority is now


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                               9
         a party or by which the Authority is bound, or constitutes a default under any of the
         foregoing or results in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance
         whatsoever upon any of the property or assets of the Authority except Permitted
         Encumbrances.

                 (f)    Except as otherwise provided in this Master Lease, the Indenture and the
         Security Documents, the Authority will not assign this Master Lease, its rights to payments
         from the City or its duties and obligations under this Master Lease to any other person,
         firm or corporation so as to impair or violate the representations, covenants and warranties
         contained in this Section 2.2.

                 (g)    The Authority will not use any of the proceeds of the sale of the Series 2025
         Bonds in a manner not authorized by the terms of this Master Lease, the Indenture or the
         exhibits hereto and thereto.

                 (h)     There is no action, suit or proceeding pending or, to the best knowledge of
         the Authority, threatened, or any basis therefor, before any court or administrative agency
         which might adversely affect the Authority or the ability of the Authority to perform its
         obligations under this Master Lease, the Indenture and the Security Documents. All
         authorizations, consents and approvals of governmental bodies or agencies required in
         connection with the execution and delivery by the Authority of this Master Lease, the
         Indenture, the Security Documents or in connection with the carrying out by the Authority
         of its obligations under this Master Lease, the Indenture and the Security Documents have
         been obtained.

                 (i)    The Authority gave notice of its intent to issue the Series 2025 Bonds and
         no petition meeting the requirements of Section 17D-2-602 or 17D-2-502 of the Building
         Authority Act was submitted during the 30-day period following publication of such notice.
         The Authority gave notice of a public hearing and held such public hearing with respect to
         the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds all in accordance with the provisions of Section 11-
         14-318 of the Act.

                                             ARTICLE III

                                        DEMISING CLAUSE

        The Authority hereby demises and leases the Project, and the City leases the same from the
Authority, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances in accordance with the provisions of this
Master Lease, to have and to hold under this Master Lease unless sooner terminated as expressly
provided herein. Nothing in this Master Lease shall be construed to require the City to operate the
Project other than as the lessee hereunder or to exercise its right to purchase any or all of the Project
or any portion thereof as provided in Article XII of this Master Lease.

       The Trustee shall be empowered, after an Event of Nonappropriation or an Event of Default
and the foreclosure of the security afforded under this Master Lease, the Indenture or the Security
Documents, to collect the amount of the Base Rentals and Additional Rentals allocable to any
sublease from any and all sublessees, and apply the net amount collected to the Base Rentals and



4924-3182-7297, v. 3                               10
Additional Rentals required herein, but no such collection shall be deemed a waiver of any
agreement, term, covenant or condition hereof, or the acceptance of any sublessee as lessee
hereunder.

       The Authority warrants and covenants that it will acquire the Projects for the exclusive use
of the City (subject to the occurrence of an Event of Default or an Event of Nonappropriation),
subject to Permitted Encumbrances. The Authority will cause to be furnished to the Trustee a
commitment for title insurance policy which meets the requirements of Section 2.4 of the General
Indenture.

                                           ARTICLE IV

                                          LEASE TERM

        Section 4.1.       Commencement of Lease Term. The Lease Term shall commence as of
the date of delivery of the Series 2025 Bonds and shall terminate at midnight on ____________.
The Lease Term may be continued, solely at the option of the City, beyond the expiration of the
Original Term for an additional one year, (the first “Renewal Term”) and for additional Renewal
Terms thereafter each of one year in duration (except that the final Renewal Term shall commence
____________ and end on ____________), upon the City having adopted a final budget in
accordance with applicable law prior to the end of the then-current Original Term or Renewal
Term, as the case may be, that appropriates specifically with respect to this Master Lease sufficient
City Funds for the payment of Base Rentals and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals to
become due during the next following Renewal Term, it being understood that by budgeting and
appropriating such amounts, the City shall have elected to continue the Lease Term for the next
following Renewal Term and shall have given adequate notice thereof as contemplated by Section
l7D-2-402(1)(b) of the Building Authority Act. The terms and conditions during any Renewal
Term shall be the same as the terms and conditions during the Original Term, except that the Base
Rentals shall be as otherwise specified in Exhibit D attached hereto, for each such Renewal Term,
as such Schedule may be revised as provided in Section 6.2 hereof.

        Within five (5) days after the adoption of such final budget, the City shall deliver written
notice to the Trustee stating that the City has extended the term of this Master Lease for the
succeeding Renewal Term, describing in reasonable detail the actions taken by the governing body
of the City (if such actions are then required to pay any Rentals hereunder or, if no such actions
are then required, explaining the reasons therefor) to appropriate funds sufficient for the purpose
of paying the Base Rentals and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals (as provided in Sections
6.2 and 6.3 hereof) to become due during such succeeding Renewal Term. Unless the Trustee shall
have previously received the foregoing notice applicable to the next succeeding Renewal Term,
the Trustee shall, at least 20 days prior to the last day of each Fiscal Year, make written inquiry of
the City as to whether the City has extended the term of this Master Lease and whether the
governing body of the City shall have made the appropriation necessary to pay the Base Rentals
and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals to become due during such succeeding Renewal
Term. The City shall deliver written notice to the Trustee as soon as practicable, but in no event
later than the expiration of the Original Term or the then current Renewal Term, stating (as the
case may be) that: (i) the governing body of the City has failed or refused to appropriate,
specifically with respect to this Master Lease, moneys sufficient to pay such Base Rentals and


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             11
reasonably estimated Additional Rentals for the next succeeding Renewal Term and stating what
actions the City and its officials propose to take with respect to this Master Lease, the Projects and
any budgetary procedures for any Base Rentals and Additional Rentals that may thereafter accrue;
or (ii) that the City is precluded from adopting its final budget for the fiscal year in question due
to the procedural requirements of State law described below.

         In the event the governing body of the City is precluded, solely as a result of notice, hearing
or other procedural requirements imposed by State law in connection with the adoption of a final
budget, from adopting a final budget on or prior to the last day of any Fiscal Year, no Event of
Nonappropriation shall be deemed to have occurred as a result of the failure to so adopt a final
budget, provided that: (i) prior to the last day of such Fiscal Year, the governing body of the City
shall have adopted a tentative budget which includes a tentative appropriation of City Funds
sufficient to pay the Base Rentals and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals to become due
during the succeeding Renewal Term; (ii) prior to the last day of such Fiscal Year, the City shall
have delivered to the Trustee and any Security Instrument Issuer, a copy of the tentative budget
adopted by its governing body and a notice stating that it is the intention of the governing body to
renew the Lease Term upon the adoption of the final budget; (iii) any Base Rentals or Additional
Rentals described in the preceding paragraph and provided further that any Rentals which become
due and payable pursuant to the terms of this Master Lease prior to the adoption of such final
budget shall be paid by the City in accordance with the tentative budget adopted by the governing
body of the City; and (iv) the governing body of the City shall adopt a final budget on or before
the last date allowable under applicable law that includes the appropriation of City Funds required
under this Section 4.1 to renew the Lease Term. The City shall promptly file a copy of the final
budget so adopted by its governing body with the Trustee.

         Section 4.2.       Termination of Lease Term. The Lease Term shall terminate upon the
first to occur of the following events:

                  (a)    the exercise by the City of its option to purchase the Authority’s interest in
         all of the Projects, granted under the provisions of this Master Lease;

                (b)     an Event of Default and the election of the Authority or the Trustee to
         terminate this Master Lease under Article XIV hereof;

                  (c)   the discharge of the lien of the Indenture under Article VIII thereof;

                 (d)   the expiration or termination of the Lease Term pursuant to an Event of
         Nonappropriation or Section 10.3 of this Master Lease under the conditions provided
         therein; or

               (e)     the last day of the Lease Term of this Master Lease, upon payment of all
         Base Rentals and Additional Rentals required hereunder.

        Section 4.3.       Effect on the City of Expiration or Termination of the Term of this
Master Lease. The expiration or termination of the term of this Master Lease as to the City’s right
of possession and use of the Projects pursuant to Section 4.2(b) or (d) hereof shall terminate all
obligations of the City under this Master Lease (except to the extent of legally available City Funds
from the Project) and shall terminate the City’s rights of use, occupancy and operation of the


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                              12
Projects; provided, however, that all other terms of this Master Lease and the Indenture, including
all obligations of the Trustee with respect to the Bondholders and the receipt and disbursement of
funds, shall be continuing until the lien of the Indenture is discharged or foreclosed, as provided
in the Indenture, except that all obligations of the City to pay any amounts to the Bondholders and
the Trustee hereunder shall thereafter be satisfied only as provided in the Indenture. The
termination or expiration of the term of this Master Lease as to the City’s right of possession and
use pursuant to Section 4.2(b) or (d) hereof, in and of itself, shall not discharge the lien of the
Indenture.

        Section 4.4.      Revised Schedule of Base Rentals and Option Price. Upon partial
redemption of any Series of Bonds pursuant to the Indenture, or the issuance of Additional Bonds
or Refunding Bonds pursuant to the Indenture, the Authority shall provide the City and the Trustee
with a revised schedule of Base Rentals which schedule shall take into account such redemption
or issuance and shall be and become for all purposes thereafter Exhibit D to this Master Lease
setting forth the Base Rentals.

                                           ARTICLE V

                                  ENJOYMENT OF PROJECTS


        The Authority hereby covenants to provide the City during the Lease Term with quiet use
and enjoyment of the Projects, and the City shall, by keeping and performing the agreements and
covenants on its part contained in this Master Lease, during the Lease Term peaceably and quietly
have and hold and enjoy the Projects, without suit, trouble or hindrance from the Authority, the
Trustee or the Bondholders, except as expressly set forth herein and in the Indenture and the
Security Documents. Neither the Authority, the Trustee nor any Bondholder shall interfere with
such quiet use and enjoyment during the Lease Term so long as no Event of Default or Event of
Nonappropriation shall have occurred. The Authority shall, at the request of the City and at the
cost of the City, join in any legal action in which the City asserts its right to such possession and
enjoyment, to the extent that the Authority may lawfully do so. In addition, the City may at its own
expense join in any legal action affecting its possession and enjoyment of the Projects and shall be
joined as a party in any action affecting its liabilities hereunder.

        The Authority, the Bondholder and the Trustee and their respective designated
representatives shall have the right at all reasonable times during business hours (and in
emergencies at all times) to enter into and upon the Projects for the purpose of inspecting the same,
for any purpose related to the Authority’s obligations or rights under this Master Lease or for any
other lawful purpose.

                                           ARTICLE VI

                                   PAYMENTS BY THE CITY

       Section 6.1.     Payments to Constitute Current Expenses of the City. The City and the
Authority acknowledge and agree that the obligation of the City to pay Base Rentals and
Additional Rentals under this Master Lease constitutes current expenses of the City payable


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             13
exclusively from City Funds and shall not in any way be construed to be an obligation or
indebtedness of the City within the meaning of Sections 3 or 4 of Article XIV of the Utah
Constitution, or any other constitutional or statutory limitation or requirement applicable to the
City concerning the creation of indebtedness. No provision of this Master Lease shall be construed
or interpreted (i) to require the governing body of the City to appropriate any money to pay the
Base Rentals, the Additional Rentals or the Purchase Option Price, or (ii) as a lending of the credit
of the City within the meaning of Section 29 of Article VI of the Utah Constitution. Neither the
City, nor the Authority on its behalf, has pledged the credit of the City to the payment of the Base
Rentals, the Additional Rentals, the Purchase Option Price, the Bonds or the interest thereon, and
neither this Master Lease, the Indenture nor the Bonds shall directly or contingently obligate the
City to apply money, or to levy or pledge any form of taxation, to the payment of the Base Rentals,
the Additional Rentals, the Purchase Option Price or the Bonds or any interest thereon except as
expressly provided herein. If the City fails to pay any Base Rentals or Additional Rentals due under
this Master Lease it shall immediately quit and vacate the Projects and its obligation to pay Base
Rentals or Additional Rentals hereunder shall terminate.

         Section 6.2.       Payment of Base Rentals.

                 (a)     The City shall pay Base Rentals exclusively from City Funds. The City shall
         pay Base Rentals during the Lease Term in such amounts as shall be sufficient to pay
         principal and interest when due on the Bonds. The Base Rentals shall be payable directly
         to the Trustee in periodic payments at the times and manner and in the amounts as specified
         in the schedule of Base Rental payments attached as Exhibit D hereto as shall equal the
         interest payments falling due on the Bonds on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date
         and the principal payments falling due on the Bonds either by regularly scheduled
         maturities or by mandatory sinking fund installment or redemption, on the next succeeding
         principal payment date, such that there shall be on deposit with the Trustee at least fifteen
         days prior to each principal and/or interest payment date on the Bonds an amount sufficient
         to make such payment. At the time of execution of this Master Lease, Base Rental
         payments for each payment date will equal the amounts set forth in Exhibit D hereto
         (however, in the event the City does not ensure payments in Exhibit D are paid in full, it
         shall be deemed an Event of Nonappropriation or an Event of Default, as applicable). The
         City understands that the Base Rental Payment Schedule attached as Exhibit D may be
         revised from time to time based on the redemption of Bonds (other than mandatory sinking
         fund redemptions), or the issuance of any Additional Bonds or Refunding Bonds allowed
         under the Indenture. The City hereby agrees to pay the Base Rentals in accordance with
         the Base Rental Payment Schedule attached hereto as Exhibit D hereto as it may be revised
         from time to time by such amounts as are necessary to reflect the redemption of the
         principal of certain Bonds or to pay the principal of the Additional Bonds or Refunding
         Bonds and interest on such Additional Bonds or Refunding Bonds.

         In addition, in the event the market value of the amount on deposit in the Debt Service
Reserve Fund is, for any reason, reduced below the Debt Service Reserve Requirement, the City
shall, in the event it elects to renew this Master Lease during the following Renewal Term, and as
a condition of renewal (but solely from City Funds), pay to the Trustee in two substantially equal
semiannual payments additional Base Rentals during the Lease Term, in an amount sufficient to
replenish the Debt Service Reserve Fund to the Debt Service Reserve Requirement.


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                              14
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, no payment of Base Rentals or
Additional Rentals shall be required to be paid prior to the Completion Date of any one Project
with respect to which such Rentals are being paid.

                (b)      In the event that (1)(A) a portion of a Project (the “Completed Portion of
         the Project”) financed with a separate Series of Bonds is accepted by the City for use and
         occupancy under this Master Lease, and (B) the acquisition and construction of additional
         portions of the Project (the “Uncompleted Portion of the Project”) financed with one or
         more Series of Bonds (other than the Series of Bonds described in (A) above) have yet to
         be completed, and (2) an Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture) occurs under the
         Indenture due to the failure to complete the Uncompleted Portion of the Project, the City
         and the Authority hereby agree, as follows:

                         (i)    The City consents to the provisions of Section 9.15 of the General
                  Indenture governing such an Event of Default; and

                           (ii)   The City shall, subject to the occurrence of an Event of
                  Nonappropriation, continue to pay Base Rentals and Additional Rentals with
                  respect to the Completed Portion of the Project and this Master Lease shall remain
                  in full force and effect with respect to the Completed Portion of the Project.

                 (c)     In the event that less than all of any one Project is initially made available
         for use, occupancy and operation and the City accepts a portion of any one Project for its
         use, occupancy and operation pending final completion of the remainder of any one such
         Project, any Base Rentals paid by the City with respect to any one such Project shall be
         prorated in a manner so as to reflect the fair rental value of that portion of the Project then
         available for use, occupancy or operation by the City and so used, occupied or operated.

                 (d)     The amount of the Base Rentals otherwise payable by the City hereunder
         shall be reduced by an amount equal to (i) any earnings on the investment of the Bond
         Fund, (ii) any moneys transferred to the Bond Fund from the Debt Service Reserve Fund
         pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section 5.10 of the General Indenture (other than from draws
         on a Reserve Instrument), and (iii) any Direct Payments on deposit with the Trustee in the
         Bond Fund. In the event that Direct Payments are deposited with the Trustee after the City
         has made the related payment of Base Rentals, the City may elect to have the Trustee return
         to the City an amount equal to such Direct Payments (so long as the amount remaining on
         deposit in the Bond Fund continues to be sufficient to pay principal and interest next due
         on the Bonds, if such payment is requested prior to the related Interest Payment Date) or
         to have the Trustee retain the Direct Payments in the Bond Fund and take the credit with
         respect to the next required Base Rentals payment. Each payment of Base Rentals shall be
         in consideration for the use of the Projects by the City during the applicable period
         commencing on the Bond Payment Date next preceding the Bond Payment Date to which
         such Base Rental payment is attributable and for the option to purchase the Projects granted
         herein.

                (e)     The payments of Base Rentals and Additional Rentals under this Master
         Lease for each Renewal Term during the term of this Master Lease shall constitute the total


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                               15
         Rentals which are payable for said Renewal Term and shall be paid by the City for and in
         consideration of the right of use, occupancy and operation of the Projects and the continued
         quiet use and enjoyment of the Projects for and during said Renewal Term. The parties
         hereto agree that such total Rentals will represent the fair rental value of the Projects. In
         making such determination, the parties will give consideration to the costs of financing the
         Costs of Acquisition and Construction of the Projects, the uses and purposes of the Projects
         and the benefits therefrom which will accrue to the parties to this Master Lease and the
         general public by reason of the Projects.

                (f)     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City may not elect to renew this Master
         Lease in part and in the event it desires to renew this Master Lease must continue to pay
         City Funds in an amount sufficient to pay Base Rentals attributable to all of the Projects
         which have been delivered for occupancy or use (or any portion thereof, in proportion to
         such available portion).

                 (g)     It is understood and agreed by the City that, subject to the terms of this
         Master Lease and the Indenture, all Base Rentals payable under this Section 6.2 by the
         City, as well as the Purchase Option Price, if paid with respect to any or all of the Projects,
         are assigned by the Authority to the Trustee for the benefit of the Bondholders as set forth
         in the Indenture. The City assents to such assignment. The Authority hereby directs the
         City, and the City hereby agrees, to pay to the Trustee at its principal office in Salt Lake
         City, Utah or such other office as designated by the Trustee, all Base Rentals payable by
         the City pursuant to this Section 6.2 and, if paid, the Purchase Option Price.

                  (h)    The amount of the Base Rentals and Purchase Option Price otherwise
         payable shall be reduced as appropriate to reflect any redemption of Bonds and/or the
         purchase of Bonds and the cancellation thereof in advance of their maturity. If at any time
         the amounts held by the Trustee in the Bond Fund and the Debt Service Reserve Fund
         (other than moneys held for the payment of Bonds not deemed Outstanding) shall be
         sufficient to pay at the times required the principal of and interest and premium, if any, on
         all of the Bonds then Outstanding, the City shall not be obligated to pay any further Base
         Rentals hereunder.

                 (i)      As provided in Section 17D-2-401(2)(b)(i) of the Building Authority Act,
         the City is not required to make any payment of Base Rentals or Additional Rentals
         hereunder until construction of the related Project or Projects are complete. In the event
         that a Project is not completed by the time that amounts set aside for payment of capitalized
         interest are expended, the City and the Authority shall (i) reallocate proceeds of the related
         Series of Bonds to make funds available for additional capitalized interest, (ii) seek other
         legally available funds for such purpose or (iii) issue Additional Bonds to finance
         additional capitalized interest; provided, however, the City may commence making
         payments of Base Rentals with respect to individual completed projects constituting a
         Project.

        Section 6.3.      Payment of Additional Rentals with Respect to the Projects. In addition
to the Base Rentals and as part of the total consideration for the use of the Projects and the option
to purchase any or all of the Projects, and commencing upon the execution and delivery of this


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                               16
Master Lease and continuing throughout the period that the City pays Base Rentals, the City shall
pay or shall cause to be paid the following Additional Rentals, exclusively from City Funds, during
the Lease Term thereof as hereinafter provided:

                (a)     the annual fee of the Trustee for the ordinary services of the Trustee
         rendered and its ordinary expenses incurred under the Indenture;

                (b)     the reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee and any paying agent
         appointed under the Indenture with respect to the Bonds for acting as paying agent as
         provided in the Indenture;

                (c)     the reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee for extraordinary services
         rendered by it and extraordinary expenses, including the fees and expenses of its counsel,
         incurred as Trustee under the Indenture;

                (d)      the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Authority relating to the
         Projects not otherwise required to be paid by the City under the terms of this Master Lease;

                 (e)    the costs of maintenance and repair of the Projects as required under Section
         9.1 hereof;

                (f)     the costs of taxes, governmental charges, utility charges, management and
         operations expenses, liens and encumbrances with respect to the Projects as required under
         Section 9.3 hereof;

                 (g)   the costs of casualty, public liability and property damage and worker’s
         compensation insurance with respect to the Projects as required under Sections 9.4, 9.5 and
         9.6 hereof;

                 (h)    the amount of any tax or excise on the Base Rentals, Additional Rentals,
         Purchase Option Price or any other tax, however described, levied, assessed or imposed by
         the United States Government, the State or any political subdivision or any taxing authority
         thereof against the Authority;

                (i)     an amount equal to any franchise, succession, capital levy or transfer tax or
         any income, excess profits or revenue tax, or any other tax, assessment, charge or levy
         upon the Base Rentals, Additional Rentals or the Purchase Option Price payable by the
         City pursuant to this Master Lease;

                 (j)     any amounts required to be deposited to the Rebate Fund established with
         respect to a Series of Bonds;

                (k)    Security Instrument Costs, Security Instrument Repayment Obligations,
         Reserve Instrument Costs and Reserve Instrument Repayment Obligations; and

                 (l)    during the Original Term or any Renewal Term in which there is an
         insufficiency of Net Proceeds as described in Section 10.2 hereof, an amount equal to the



4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             17
         insufficiency of Net Proceeds required to repair, replace, restore or modify the affected
         Project or Projects.

        The Additional Rentals specified in subsections (a), (b), (c) and (k) shall be payable to the
Trustee and shall be due and payable within ten days after notice in writing from said Trustee to
the City stating the amount of Additional Rentals then due and payable and the purpose thereof.
Except as otherwise provided herein or in the Indenture, the Additional Rentals specified in
subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i), shall be payable to the Authority or directly to the person
or entity with respect to which such costs or fees were incurred and shall be due and payable at
such time as the Authority or such person or entity shall require. Additional Rentals specified in
subsection (j) shall be determined by, or at the direction of, the City and deposited with the Trustee
as required by Section 148 of the Code.

        Section 6.4.       Manner of Payment. The Base Rentals, Additional Rentals and, if paid,
the Purchase Option Price, shall be paid exclusively from City Funds and in lawful money of the
United States of America. The obligation of the City to make payment of the Base Rentals and
Additional Rentals required under this Article VI and other sections hereof and to perform and
observe the other covenants and agreements contained herein shall be absolute and unconditional
in all events except as expressly provided hereunder. Notwithstanding any dispute between the
City and the Authority, the Trustee, any Bondholder, any contractor or subcontractor retained with
respect to the construction and equipping of a Project, any supplier of labor or materials in
connection therewith or any other person, the City shall pay all payments of Base Rentals and
Additional Rentals, from and to the extent of available City Funds, when due, and shall not
withhold any Base Rentals or Additional Rentals pending final resolution of such dispute, nor shall
the City assert any right of set-off or counterclaim against its obligation to make such payments
required hereunder. The obligation of the City to pay Base Rentals and Additional Rentals during
the Original Term or any Renewal Term shall be absolute and unconditional in all events, except
as expressly provided herein, and payment of the Base Rentals and Additional Rentals shall not be
abated through accident or unforeseen circumstances.

       Section 6.5.         Expression of Need for the Project by the City; Determination of
Purchase Price.

                 (a)     The City hereby finds as of the date of this Master Lease, that it has an
         essential need for the Project to carry out and give effect to the public purposes of the City.
         The City and the Authority hereby agree and determine that the Base Rentals and items of
         Additional Rentals with respect to the Project are reasonable and that the Purchase Option
         Price with respect to the Project represents, as of the end of the Lease Term, a reasonable
         purchase price for the Project. In making such determination the City and the Authority
         have given consideration to the costs of the Project, the cost of financing the Project, the
         uses and purposes for which the Project will be employed by the City and the benefit to the
         citizens of the City by reason of the City’s use and occupancy of the Project pursuant to
         the provisions of this Master Lease.

                (b)     The City must find that, as of the date of the execution of an Amendment to
         this Master Lease relating to a Project, the City then has an essential need for such Project
         which is the subject of the Amendment to Master Lease to carry out and give effect to the


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                               18
         public purposes of the City. At the time of execution of such Amendment to Master Lease,
         the City and the Authority must agree and determine that the Base Rentals and Additional
         Rentals payable with respect to such Project that is the subject of such Amendment to
         Master Lease are reasonable and that the Purchase Option Price represents, as of the end
         of the Lease Term, a reasonable purchase price for such Project. In making such
         determination the City and the Authority will give consideration to the costs of such
         Project, the cost of financing such Project, the uses and purposes for which such Project
         will be employed by the City and the benefit to the citizens of the City by reason of the
         City’s use and occupancy of such Project pursuant to the provisions of this Master Lease.

        Section 6.6.        Nonappropriation. In the event that sufficient City Funds shall not be
budgeted and appropriated by the City, in a final budget adopted within the time permitted by
Section 4.1 hereof, for the payment of the (i) Base Rentals becoming due during such Renewal
Term and (ii) such Additional Rentals becoming due during such Renewal Term which can be
determined with reasonable accuracy, then an Event of Nonappropriation shall be deemed to have
occurred as of the first day of such Renewal Term and the City shall not be obligated to make
payment of the Base Rentals or Additional Rentals provided for herein beyond the last day of the
Renewal Term preceding such Event of Nonappropriation. Subject to the provisions of the next
succeeding sentence, once the City has elected to continue this Master Lease for a Renewal Term
by budgeting and appropriating sufficient City Funds for the payment of Base Rentals and
Additional Rentals hereunder the City shall, as of the first day of such Renewal Term, be obligated
to pay such Base Rentals and Additional Rentals during such Renewal Term. If the City fails to
pay any Base Rentals or Additional Rentals due under this Master Lease, or upon an Event of
Nonappropriation, the City shall immediately quit and vacate the Projects and its obligation to pay
Base Rentals or Additional Rentals hereunder shall terminate. The Trustee shall, upon the
occurrence of an Event of Nonappropriation, have all rights and remedies to take possession of the
Project as trustee for the benefit of the Bondholders of the Bonds and the Trustee shall be further
entitled to all moneys then on hand and being held in all funds created under the Indenture, less
any moneys then due and owing to the Trustee for services performed as trustee thereunder. All
property, funds and rights acquired by the Trustee by reason of an Event of Nonappropriation as
provided herein shall be held by the Trustee under the Indenture for the benefit of the Bondholders
as set forth in said Indenture until the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds are
paid in full and other amounts payable under the Indenture are paid in full and any excess shall
thereafter be paid to the City.

        Section 6.7.        Application of Base Rentals, Additional Rentals and Purchase Option
Price. All Base Rentals, the Additional Rentals specified in subsections (a), (b), (c) and (k) of
Section 6.3 hereof, and, if paid by the City, the Purchase Option Price shall be paid to the Trustee
for application in accordance with the Indenture.

       Section 6.8.         Request for Appropriation. During the Lease Term, the City covenants
and agrees as follows:

                 (a)   to include in its annual tentative budget prepared by the appropriate officials
         acting on behalf of the City in accordance with applicable law an item for expenditure of
         an amount necessary (after taking into account any and all City Funds then legally available
         for such purpose), to pay the Base Rentals and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                              19
         (calculated pursuant to Section 6.3 hereof) for the Projects during the next succeeding
         Renewal Term; and

                 (b)     to take such further action (or cause the same to be taken) as may be
         necessary or desirable to assure that the final budget submitted to the governing body of
         the City for its consideration seeks an appropriation of City Funds sufficient to pay such
         Base Rentals and Additional Rentals for each such Renewal Term, including all such
         actions for such purpose as may be required under State law.

        The next inclusion in the City’s annual tentative budget shall be made under applicable law
prior to the Fiscal year commencing July 1, 2026, so that the Base Rentals and the reasonably
estimated Additional Rentals payable during such Renewal Term will have been appropriated for
such purpose, and subsequent inclusions in each respective tentative budget for appropriations by
the City shall be made in each Fiscal Year thereafter so that the Base Rentals and Additional
Rentals to be paid during the succeeding Renewal Term will be available for such purposes as long
as the governing body of the City determines to approve such amount in the final budget as
adopted. To effect the covenants set forth in (a) above, the City hereby directs its budget officer,
or any other officer at the time charged with the responsibility of formulating budget proposals, to
include in the tentative budget prepared annually by such budget officer or other officer and
submitted to the governing body of the City, in any year in which this Master Lease is in effect,
items for all payments required for the ensuing Renewal Term under this Master Lease. It is hereby
expressed as the intention of the City that the decision to renew or not to renew the term of this
Master Lease is to be made solely by the governing body of the City at the time it considers for
adoption of the final budget for each of its fiscal years and corresponding Renewal Terms
hereunder, and not by any official of the City, acting in his or her individual capacity as such. In
this connection, the City hereby covenants and agrees that such budget officer or other officer shall
not amend, modify or otherwise change the appropriations made in any finally adopted budget for
the payment of any Base Rentals or Additional Rentals without the express prior approval of the
governing body of the City.

                                          ARTICLE VII

                       ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION OF PROJECTS

        Section 7.1.        Agreement to Acquire and Construct the Projects. The City and the
Authority agree that the Authority shall cause the Projects to be acquired and constructed as herein
provided, all of which construction, shall be made in accordance with the plans and specifications
for such Projects as approved by the City. The City hereby agrees that in order to effectuate the
purposes of this Master Lease, it authorizes the City Representative or the Authority
Representative, on behalf of the Authority, to make, execute, acknowledge and transmit any other
contracts, orders, receipts, writings and instructions with any other persons, firms or corporations
and in general do all things which may be requisite or proper, all for the carrying out and
furtherance of the acquisition and construction of the Projects.

      The Authority agrees to carry out or to cause to be carried out the acquisition, construction
and equipping of any Project through the application of moneys to be disbursed from the



4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             20
Construction Fund by the Trustee utilizing a requisition request complying with the requirements
of Section 7.3 herein.

        The Authority agrees to cause all Projects to be constructed with all reasonable dispatch,
subject only to delays caused by Force Majeure excepted.

       The City hereby covenants, to the extent permitted by applicable law, to use other legally
available funds and to seek additional legally available funds to the extent necessary to complete
the acquisition, construction and equipping of any Project as herein required, or to make certain
design changes in such Projects to the extent necessary to complete the acquisition, construction
and equipping of such Projects with moneys then available for such purposes in the Construction
Fund.

        Section 7.2.      Application of Proceeds of Series 2025 Bonds. The proceeds from the
sale of the Series 2025 Bonds shall be applied as set forth in the First Supplemental Indenture.

        Section 7.3.      Disbursements from the Construction Fund. The Authority has, in the
Indenture, authorized and directed the Trustee to make payments from the Construction Fund (if
any) under the Indenture to pay the Costs of Acquisition and Construction of the Projects. So long
as the Trustee has not received notice nor is deemed to have received notice pursuant to Section
10.l(h) of the General Indenture that an Event of Nonappropriation or Event of Default has
occurred and is continuing, the Trustee is hereby authorized to disburse the amounts on deposit in
the Construction Fund, as provided herein and therein.

         Other than for payment of capitalized interest on the Bonds, which shall be paid by the
Trustee without further direction (as prescribed in the First Supplemental Indenture), such
payments shall be made upon receipt by the Trustee of a requisition in substantially the form
attached hereto as Exhibit C and signed by the City Representative on which requisition the Trustee
is entitled to conclusively rely.

        Section 7.4.        Establishment of Completion Date; Disbursement of Balance of
Construction Fund. The Completion Date with respect to any one Project shall be evidenced to
the Trustee by a certificate signed by the City Representative and the Authority Representative
stating that, except for amounts retained by the Trustee at the direction of the Authority for any
Costs of Acquisition and Construction not then due and payable, (i) the acquisition, construction,
installation and improvement of such Project has been completed in accordance with the plans and
specifications and all labor, services, materials and supplies used in such acquisition, construction,
installation and improvement have been paid for; (ii) all other facilities necessary in connection
with such Project have been constructed, acquired and installed to their satisfaction; (iii) such
Project is suitable and sufficient for its intended purposes; and (iv) all costs and expenses incurred
in the acquisition, construction and equipping of such Project have been paid. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, such certificate shall state that it is given without prejudice to any rights against third
parties which exist at the date of such certificate or which may subsequently come into being.
Upon receipt of such certificate, the Trustee shall retain in the applicable Construction Fund
account an aggregate sum equal to the amount estimated by the City Representative and the
Authority Representative to be necessary for payment of the Cost of Acquisition and Construction
not then due and payable. All moneys then on hand in such Construction Fund account in excess


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             21
of the amount to be retained shall be transferred by the Trustee, as set forth in a written direction
of the Authority and the City, to the Bond Fund to be used by the Trustee as provided in the related
Supplemental Indenture.

       Section 7.5.        Investment of Construction Fund, Bond Fund, Rebate Fund and Debt
Service Reserve Fund Moneys. Subject to the provisions of Article VI of the General Indenture,
any moneys held as a part of the Construction Fund, the Bond Fund, the Debt Service Reserve
Fund or the Rebate Fund or any other fund created under the Indenture shall be invested and
reinvested by the Trustee upon the written direction of the City in Investment Obligations (as
defined in the Indenture) unless otherwise provided by Supplemental Indenture.

         Section 7.6.        Design Contracts and Construction Contracts.

                 (a)    The City agrees that upon the occurrence of an Event of Nonappropriation
         or an Event of Default and upon receipt of a written request from the Trustee, it will assign
         to the Trustee all of its right, title and interest in and to all Design Contracts and other
         Project documents. The City shall have and keep on file and available for inspection by the
         Authority and the Trustee copies of the Design Contracts as soon after the commencement
         of the Lease Term as such Design Contracts shall become available to the City and
         throughout the Lease Term.

                  (a) Each Construction Contract executed in connection with a Project must provide
         that, upon an Event of Nonappropriation or Event of Default, the Construction Contract
         will be fully and freely assignable to the Trustee without the consent of any other person;
         and that, if the Construction Contract is assumed by the Trustee, the Contractor will
         perform the agreements contained in the Construction Contract for the Trustee. Each
         Construction Contract must also provide that, upon an Event of Nonappropriation, an Event
         of Default or damage to, or destruction or condemnation of, the Project as described in
         Section 10.1 hereof, the Trustee may terminate such Contract, and the contractor shall then
         be entitled to payment only from amounts available therefor in the Construction Fund and
         only for work done prior to such termination. The City agrees that upon the occurrence of
         an Event of Nonappropriation or an Event of Default and upon receipt of a written request
         from the Trustee, it will assign to the Trustee all of its right, title and interest in and to all
         Construction Contracts and other Project documents. Each Construction Contract shall be
         for a fixed price and shall require the contractor to provide 100% payment and performance
         bonds as provided in Section 7.8 hereof. In the event of any change order resulting in the
         performance of additional work in connection with the construction of the Project, the
         amount of such bonds pertaining thereto shall be increased to include the cost of such
         additional work or materials or fixtures to be incorporated in the Project. The City shall
         have and keep on file and available for inspection by the Authority and the Trustee copies
         of the Project documents as soon after the commencement of the Lease Term as such
         Project documents shall become available to the City and throughout the Lease Term.

       Section 7.7.       Defaults Under Design Contracts or Construction Contracts. In the
event of any material default under any Design Contract or Construction Contract, or in the event
of a material breach of warranty thereunder with respect to any materials, workmanship or
performance, the City and the Authority shall promptly proceed, either separately or in conjunction


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                                22
with others, to pursue diligently their remedies against the Contractor in default and/or against
each surety on any bond securing the performance of such contracts. The Net Proceeds of any
amounts recovered by way of damages, refunds, adjustments or otherwise in connection with the
foregoing, after deduction of expenses incurred in such recovery (including, without limitation,
attorneys’ fees and costs) and, after reimbursement to the City or the Authority of any amounts
theretofore paid by the City or the Authority and not previously reimbursed to the City or the
Authority for correcting or remedying the default which gave rise to the proceedings against the
contractor or surety, shall be paid into the applicable Construction Fund account if received before
the Completion Date, and shall be used for Costs of Acquisition and Construction of the related
Project, or, at the direction of the Authority, shall be transferred by the Trustee into the Bond Fund
created under the Indenture to pay principal and/or interest next coming due on the related Series
of Bonds.

        Section 7.8.       Contractor’s Performance and Payment Bonds. Each Contractor
retained by the City or the Authority in connection with a Construction Contract shall be required
to furnish a performance bond and a labor and material payment bond on forms acceptable to the
City. Such bond shall be made payable to the Trustee and shall be executed by a corporate surety
licensed to transact business in the State and shall be in the full amount of the contract price for
such contractor’s portion of such Project. If, at any time during the construction of a Project, the
surety on such bond shall be disqualified from doing business in the State, an alternate surety shall
be selected by the Authority.

         Section 7.9.       Contractor’s General Public Liability and Property Damage Insurance.
Each Contractor and subcontractor retained by the City or the Authority in connection with a
Construction Contract shall be required to procure and maintain comprehensive general public
liability and property damage insurance as applicable, at his own cost and expense, in an amount
that is consistent with prudent practice during the duration of such Construction Contract. Such
policies shall carry loss payable endorsements in favor of the Trustee under the Indenture. Such
insurance shall include a provision prohibiting cancellation or amendment without ten (10) days’
prior notice by certified mail to the Trustee. Such insurance shall provide protection from all claims
for bodily injury, including death, and all claims for destruction of or damage to the respective
Project arising out of or in connection with such contractor’s performance of his contract, whether
such operations be by himself or by any subcontractor under him or anyone directly or indirectly
employed by the contractor or such subcontractor. All limitations of liability contained in such
insurance policy or policies and set forth on such certificate of insurance, and any exclusions
provided therein, shall be approved by the City.

        Section 7.10.       Contractor’s Builder’s Risk Completed Value Insurance. Unless
otherwise obtained by the City or the Authority, each Contractor and subcontractor retained by the
City or the Authority in connection with a Construction Contract shall be required to procure and
maintain during the term of his contract and until such Project is accepted and insured by the
Authority and the City, builder’s risk completed value insurance upon the building, facilities or
improvements constructed or to be constructed, in whole or in part, by such contractor or
subcontractor, insuring against loss or damage caused by fire, malicious mischief, vandalism and
such other hazards as may be insured against in the standard extended coverage provisions of such
policies used in the State. Such policies shall contain a waiver of subrogation by the issuer of each
such policy with respect to the Trustee under the Indenture. Such policies may contain deductible


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             23
amounts of not more than the amount that is then customary for such policies. Such insurance
coverage shall be in an amount at least equal to the contract price for such contractor’s or
subcontractor’s work. In the event of any change order resulting in the performance of additional
work in connection with a Project, the amount of such insurance shall be increased to include the
cost of such additional work, as well as materials and fixtures to be incorporated in such Project.

       Such builder’s risk completed value insurance policies shall carry loss payable
endorsements in favor of the Trustee under the Indenture. No agency or employee of the City or
the Authority shall have the power to adjust or settle any loss with respect to a Project without the
prior written consent of the Trustee. Such insurance shall contain provisions prohibiting
cancellation or amendment without ten (10) days’ prior written notice to the Authority and the
Trustee.

        Section 7.11.      Contractor’s Worker’s Compensation Insurance. Each contractor and
subcontractor retained in connection with a Construction Contract shall be required to procure and
maintain worker’s compensation insurance during the term of his contract as required by the laws
of the State, covering his employees working thereunder, which coverage shall also include
occupational disease. Such insurance, if issued by a private carrier, shall contain a provision that
such coverage shall not be canceled or amended without ten (10) days’ prior written notice to the
City. Each Construction Contract shall also provide that each subcontractor of any contractor who
is a party to such contract shall be required to furnish similar worker’s compensation insurance,
including occupational disease coverage.

       Section 7.12.      Proceeds of Certain Insurance Policies and Performance Bonds. The
Net Proceeds of any performance or payment bond or insurance policy required by Section 7.8,
Section 7.9, and Section 7.10 of this Master Lease shall be deposited with the Trustee and applied
as provided in Section 10.2 of this Master Lease and Section 5.16 of the General Indenture.

                                          ARTICLE VIII

                       TITLE TO THE PROJECTS; SECURITY INTEREST

        Section 8.1.        Title to the Projects. A fee simple interest or leasehold interest, as
applicable, in the site of the Projects and title to the Projects and any and all additions, repairs,
replacements or modifications thereto, shall be held in the name of the Authority, subject to
Permitted Encumbrances, at all times until conveyed to the City as provided in Section 12.1 of this
Master Lease. The City shall not have any right, title or interest in a Project or any additions,
repairs, replacements, modifications or fixtures thereto except as expressly set forth herein.

        Section 8.2.        Security Interest. To secure the payment of all of the obligations of the
Authority under the Indenture, the Authority shall grant to the Trustee a security interest in the
Projects and the Base Rentals received by the Authority under this Master Lease. Upon execution
of this Master Lease, the City and the Authority agree that the Authority shall execute the Security
Documents and the Indenture. The Authority agrees that the Authority Representative shall, on its
behalf, execute such additional documents, including affidavits, notices and similar instruments,
in form satisfactory to the Authority or the Trustee, which the Authority or the Trustee reasonably
deems necessary or advisable to establish and maintain the security interests to be granted pursuant


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             24
to this Section 8.2. The Authority, the City and the Trustee, when directed by the Authority in
writing, shall execute from time to time such continuation statements as will be necessary to
preserve and protect the security interest granted under the provisions in this Section 8.2

                                           ARTICLE IX

                MAINTENANCE; TAXES; INSURANCE AND OTHER CHARGES

         Section 9.1.       Maintenance of the Projects by the City. The City shall, at its own
expense from available City Funds, operate, manage, keep and maintain the Projects (or cause the
Projects to be operated, managed, kept and maintained) in good working order, condition and
repair, including replacements of a capital nature when necessary, and including periodic painting
as reasonably determined by the Authority and in accordance with all operating and maintenance
manuals and all applicable laws, rules, ordinances, orders and regulations as shall be in effect from
time to time of: (1) any federal, state, county, municipal, or other governmental or quasi-
governmental agencies and bodies having or claiming jurisdiction thereof and all their respective
departments, bureaus, and officials; (2) the insurance underwriting board or insurance inspection
bureau having or claiming jurisdiction thereof; and (3) all insurance companies insuring all or any
part of the Projects. The foregoing shall not be construed to prohibit the City from challenging the
validity or applicability of such laws, rules, ordinances, orders and regulations and to defer
compliance until the challenge has been completed.

        It is understood and agreed that in consideration of the payment by the City of the Base
Rentals and Additional Rentals herein provided for, the Authority is only obligated to provide the
Projects in the manner, at the times and to the extent herein provided, and neither the Authority,
the Trustee nor any owner of any Bond shall have any obligation to incur any expense of any kind
or character in connection with the management, operation or maintenance of the Projects during
the term of this Master Lease.

        Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the City shall, as if the City were the
absolute owner thereof, assume all responsibility for the Projects (including all surfaces of the
buildings and entrances thereto, foundations, ceilings, roof, all glass and show window moldings
and all partitions, doors, fixtures, equipment, and appurtenances thereto, including lighting and
plumbing systems and fixtures, sewage facilities, electric motors and heating, ventilating and air-
conditioning systems, and all landscaping, parking lots, driveways, fences and signs located on the
sites where the Projects are located and all sidewalks and parkways located adjacent to the sites
where the Projects are located) and pay all costs or cause the payment of all costs of any kind
(including operating costs and costs of repair, whether of a capital nature or otherwise) associated
therewith.

        Section 9.2.      Modification of the Projects. The City shall have the privilege of
remodeling any Project or making substitutions, additions, modifications and improvements
thereto, at its own cost and expense, and the same shall be subject to this Master Lease, the
Indenture and the Security Documents, and shall also be included under the terms hereof and
thereof; provided, however, that such remodeling, substitutions, additions, modifications and
improvements shall not in any way damage such Projects or cause it to be used for purposes other
than those authorized under the provisions of this Master Lease, and the Constitution and laws of


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             25
the State; and provided, however, that such Projects, as remodeled, improved or altered upon
completion of such remodeling, substitutions, additions, modifications and improvements made
pursuant to this Article IX shall be of a fair rental value not less than the fair rental value of such
Projects immediately prior to the remodeling or the making of substitutions, additions,
modifications and improvements. The City shall not permit any mechanic’s or other lien to be
established or remain against the Projects for labor or materials furnished in connection with any
remodeling, substitutions, additions, modifications, improvements, repairs, renewals or
replacements so made by the City; provided, however, that if the City shall first notify the Trustee
of the intention of the City so to do, the City may in good faith contest any mechanic’s or other
lien filed or established against the Projects, and in such event may permit the items so contested
to remain undischarged and unsatisfied during the period of such contest and any appeal therefrom
unless the Trustee shall notify the City that, in the opinion of Independent Counsel, by nonpayment
of any such items the security afforded pursuant to the terms hereof and pursuant to the Indenture
and the Security Documents will be materially endangered or the Projects or any part thereof will
be subject to loss or forfeiture, in which event the City shall promptly pay and cause to be satisfied
and discharged all such unpaid items. The Trustee will cooperate fully with the City in any such
contest, upon the request and at the expense of the City. Any property for which a substitution or
replacement is made pursuant to this Section 9.2 may be disposed of by the City in any manner
and in the sole discretion of the City.

        Section 9.3.         Taxes; Other Governmental Charges and Utility Charges. In the event
that a Project or any portion thereof shall, for any reason, be deemed subject to taxation,
assessments or charges lawfully made by any governmental body which may be secured by a lien
against such Project, an Additional Rental, from and to the extent of City Funds, shall be paid, or
cause to be paid, by the City equal to the amount of all such taxes, assessments and governmental
charges then due. With respect to special assessments or other governmental charges which may
be lawfully paid in installments over a period of years, the City shall be obligated to provide for
Additional Rentals only for such installments as are required to be paid during that period that the
City is obligated to pay Base Rentals. The City shall not allow any liens for taxes, assessments or
governmental charges to exist (including, without limitation, any taxes levied which, if not paid,
will become a charge on the rentals and receipts prior to or on a parity with the charge thereon and
the pledge and assignment thereof to be created and made in the Indenture), or any interest therein
(including the interest of the Authority) on the rentals and revenues derived therefrom or
hereunder. The City shall also pay, or shall cause to be paid, as Additional Rentals, from and to
the extent of available City Funds, as the same respectively become due, all gas, water, steam,
electricity, heat, power, telephone, utility and other charges incurred in the operation, maintenance,
use, occupancy and upkeep of the Projects.

        As long as the City is in possession of the Projects and except as otherwise provided herein,
it shall keep it free and clear of all liens, charges and encumbrances (except Permitted
Encumbrances and any encumbrances arising through the Authority) and shall have the
responsibility for all management, operations, maintenance and repair of the Projects. The City in
its discretion may discharge its responsibility hereunder by: (1) using its own employees; or (2)
contracting for services; or (3) subleasing all or portions of the Projects, subject to the provisions
of this Master Lease and the Indenture; or (4) any combination of such methods. No such contract
or sublease shall place a greater burden on the Authority than provided herein, nor infringe upon
rights granted to or retained by the Authority hereunder, nor violate or in any way impair the


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                              26
Authority’s obligations under the Indenture or any other instrument, if any, securing any debt or
borrowings by the Authority, all or substantially all the proceeds of which are to be used to finance
Projects.

        The City may, at the expense and in the name of the City, in good faith contest any such
taxes, assessments, utility and other charges and, in the event of any such contest, may permit the
taxes, assessments or other charges so contested to remain unpaid during the period of such contest
and any appeal therefrom provided the City shall first deposit with the Trustee, or in court, a bond
or other security satisfactory to the Trustee pursuant to the Security Documents unless the Trustee
shall notify the City that, in the opinion of Independent Counsel, by nonpayment of any such items
the security afforded pursuant to the terms hereof and pursuant to the Indenture and the Security
Documents will be materially endangered or the Projects or any portion thereof will be subject to
loss or forfeiture, in which event such taxes, assessments or charges shall be paid forthwith. In the
event that the City shall fail to pay any of the foregoing items required by this Section 9.3 to be
paid by the City, the Trustee may (but shall be under no obligation to) pay the same, which
amounts, together with interest thereon at a rate per annum equal to the one-month U.S. Federal
Treasury Rate, but in no event less than a rate of 3.5% per annum, the City agrees to pay from and
to the extent of available City Funds.

        Section 9.4.        Provisions Respecting Insurance. The City agrees to insure or cause to
be insured, with the Trustee listed as a Loss Payee, the Projects against loss or damage of the kinds
usually insured against by public bodies similarly situated, including, without limitation, policies
of casualty and property damage, by means of policies issued by reputable insurance companies
duly qualified to do such business in the State with a uniform standard coverage endorsement
limited only as may be provided in the standard form of extended coverage endorsement at that
time in use in the State, in amounts that are not less than full insurable value of the Projects. The
term “full insurable value” as used herein shall mean the actual replacement value, or at the option
of the City any lesser amount which is equal to or greater than the principal amount of all of the
Bonds then Outstanding of the Series which financed said Projects (or applicable portions thereof
in case said Series of Bonds financed more than one Project). Alternatively, the City may insure
or cause to be insured under a blanket insurance policy or policies which cover not only the
Projects but other properties in the amounts required by the previous sentence.

         Any insurance policy issued pursuant to the preceding paragraph of this Section 9.4 shall
be so written or endorsed as to make losses, if any, payable to the Trustee. The Net Proceeds of
the insurance required in this Section 9.4 shall be applied as provided in Section 10.2 hereof or, at
the option of the City, Section 10.3 hereof. Each insurance policy provided for in Section 9.4
hereof shall contain a provision to the effect that the insurance company shall not cancel the policy
or modify it materially and adversely to the interest of the City, the Authority or the Trustee without
first giving written notice thereof to the City, the Authority and the Trustee at least thirty days in
advance of such cancellation or modification. Certificates evidencing all insurance policies issued
pursuant to this Section 9.4 or Section 9.5 hereof shall be deposited with Trustee.

       Section 9.5.        Public Liability Insurance. The City agrees self-insure or to carry or
cause to be carried public liability insurance with one or more reputable insurance companies in
amounts that are typically carried by governmental entities of the same size as the City for property
damage for any occurrence. In the event that the limits on governmental liability established by


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                              27
Title 63G, Chapter 7, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, are increased, the amounts required
by this Section 9.5 shall be deemed to be increased to such higher amounts. If self-insurance is not
utilized, the Authority and the Trustee shall be made additional insureds under such policies. The
insurance required by this Section 9.5 may be by blanket insurance policy or policies or self-
insurance meeting the following requirements: (i) such program must provide for disbursements
therefrom without action (other than a ministerial action) of the governing body of the City and
(ii) such program shall be reviewed at least annually by an actuarial consultant (including
professional staff of the City), to insure that the reserves established are sufficient for the risks
intended to be covered by such program. If self-insurance is not utilized, the policies may have a
deductible clause in such amount as shall be approved by the Authority and the Trustee. The City
may not self-insure for property/casualty insurance without the prior consent of any Security
Instrument Issuer.

        Section 9.6.       Worker’s Compensation Coverage. At all times from the date hereof
until the end of the Lease Term, the City shall, either by a policy of insurance or by self-insurance,
maintain or cause to be maintained worker’s compensation coverage with respect to officers,
agents and employees of the City working in, on or about the Projects, including coverage for
occupational diseases.

        Section 9.7.      Advances. In the event the City shall fail to maintain the full insurance
coverage required by this Master Lease or to keep the Projects in good repair and operating
condition, the Trustee may take out the required policies of insurance and pay the premiums on
the same or may make such repairs or replacements as are necessary and provide for payment
thereof; which amounts, together with interest thereon at a rate per annum equal to the one-month
U.S. Federal Treasury Rate, but in no event less than a rate of 3.5% per annum, the City agrees to
pay, from and to the extent of available City Funds.

        Section 9.8.        Failure to Provide Insurance. In the event the Authority is required
under Security Documents to reimburse the Trustee for any insurance policies required by this
Article, the City will promptly pay directly to the Trustee all premiums for said insurance, and
until payment is made by the City therefor, the amount of all such premiums which have been paid
by the Trustee shall bear interest at the one-month U.S. Federal Treasury Rate, but in no event less
than a rate of 3.5% per annum. The City shall, upon the Authority’s reasonable request, deposit
with the Trustee on the first of each month, monthly installments each in an amount equal to one-
twelfth of the estimated aggregate annual insurance premiums on all policies of insurance required
by this Article. The City further agrees, upon the Authority’s request, to cause all bills, statements
or other documents relating to the foregoing insurance premiums to be sent or mailed directly to
the Trustee. If at any time and for any reason the funds deposited with the Trustee are or will be
insufficient to pay such amounts as may then or subsequently be due, the Authority shall notify
the City and the City shall immediately deposit an amount equal to such deficiency with the
Trustee. The City shall pay to the Trustee, all reasonable fees for extraordinary services rendered
by the Trustee pursuant to this Section 9.8.

                                            ARTICLE X

                       DAMAGE, DESTRUCTION AND CONDEMNATION;
                                 USE OF NET PROCEEDS


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             28
         Section 10.1.       Damage. Destruction and Condemnation. If, prior to the termination of
the Lease Term and the payment in full of the Bonds (or the making of provisions for the payment
thereof in accordance with the Indenture) (i) the Projects or any material portion thereof shall be
destroyed (in whole or in part), or damaged by fire or other casualty; or (ii) title to, or the temporary
or permanent use of the Projects or any material portion thereof or the Projects or any material
portion thereof shall be taken under the exercise of the power of eminent domain by any
governmental body or by any person, firm or corporation acting under governmental authority; or
(iii) a material defect in construction of a Project shall become apparent; or (iv) title to or the use
of all or any material portion of the Projects shall be lost by reason of a defect in title thereto, the
City shall be obligated, from and to the extent of City Funds and subject to the provisions of
Section 10.3 of this Master Lease, to continue to pay the amounts specified in Sections 10.2, 6.2
and 6.3 of this Master Lease regardless of whether said Projects shall have been accepted.

        Section 10.2.       Obligation of the City to Repair and Replace a Project. Subject to the
provisions of Section 10.3 of this Master Lease, the City, the Authority, and the Trustee shall cause
the Net Proceeds of any insurance policies, performance bonds or condemnation awards with
respect to a Project or Projects to be deposited in the applicable Construction Fund accounts if
received before the Completion Date and in a separate trust fund under the Indenture if received
thereafter. All Net Proceeds so deposited shall be applied to the prompt repair, restoration,
modification or improvement of said Project or Projects by the City upon receipt of a requisition
acceptable to the Trustee signed by the City Representative, stating with respect to each payment
to be made: (i) the requisition number; (ii) the name and address of the person, firm or corporation
to whom payment is due; (iii) the amount to be paid; (iv) that each obligation mentioned therein
has been properly incurred, is a proper charge against the applicable Construction Fund accounts
or separate trust fund, and has not been the basis of any previous withdrawal and specifying in
reasonable detail the nature of the obligation, accompanied by a bill or a statement of account for
such obligation; and (v) such other documents and information as the Trustee requires. The balance
of any such Net Proceeds remaining after such repair, restoration, modification or improvement
has been completed shall be transferred to the Bond Fund to be applied to the payment of the
principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the applicable Series of Bonds, or if said Bonds shall
have been fully paid (or provision for payment thereof has been made in accordance with the
provisions of the Indenture), any balance remaining in such Construction Fund account(s) or
separate trust fund shall be paid to the City. If the Net Proceeds shall be insufficient to pay in full
the cost of any repair, restoration, modification or improvement, the City shall, from and to the
extent of available City Funds, complete the work and pay any cost in excess of the amount of the
Net Proceeds. The City agrees that, if by reason of any such insufficiency of the Net Proceeds, the
City shall make any payments pursuant to the provisions of this Section 10.2, the City shall not be
entitled to any reimbursement therefor from the Authority, the Trustee or the Bondholders of the
Bonds nor shall the City be entitled to any diminution of the Base Rentals and Additional Rentals
payable under Section 6.2 and Section 6.3 of this Master Lease. The City further agrees that any
repair, restoration, modification or improvement paid for in whole or in part from such Net
Proceeds shall be subject to the security afforded by the Indenture, this Master Lease and the
Security Documents, and shall be included under the terms hereof.

       Section 10.3.      Covenant to Seek Appropriation of Insufficiency of Net Proceeds;
Discharge of the Obligation of the City to Repair and Replace the Projects. In the event that the
Net Proceeds of any insurance policy, performance bond or condemnation award shall be


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                               29
insufficient to pay in full the cost of any repair, restoration, or modification of a Project or Projects
required under Section 10.2 of this Master Lease, the appropriate budget officers of the City shall,
within 15 days of notice of such insufficiency, seek an appropriation from the City for an amount
equal to any such insufficiency. In the event that the City shall fail to appropriate, by the first day
of the next Renewal Term following such request for an appropriation, an amount at least equal to
such insufficiency for such purpose, the obligation to repair and replace said Project or Projects
under Section 10.2 of this Master Lease may be discharged by depositing the Net Proceeds of the
insurance policies, performance bonds or condemnation awards made available by reason of such
occurrence into the Bond Fund. Upon the deposit of such Net Proceeds in said Bond Fund, the
City shall have no further obligation for the payment of Base Rentals and Additional Rentals
hereunder with respect to said Project or Projects, and possession of said Project or Projects as
well as all rights created pursuant to this Master Lease and the interest of the City and the Authority
therein and in any funds or accounts created under the Indenture with respect to said Project or
Projects (except for moneys held in the Rebate Fund and for the payment of Bonds not then deemed
Outstanding), shall be surrendered to the Trustee, as trustee for the Bondholders of the applicable
Series of Bonds. Thereafter, the Authority’s interest in said Project or Projects may be liquidated
pursuant to the provisions of and subject to the limitations set forth in the Indenture, Security
Documents and the proceeds of such liquidation and the Net Proceeds of any insurance policy,
performance bond or condemnation award so deposited in the Bond Fund, as well as all other
moneys on deposit in any fund created under the Indenture with respect to said Project or Projects
(except moneys held in the Rebate Fund or for the payment of Bonds not then deemed
Outstanding), shall be applied to the redemption of the applicable Series of Bonds on the next
succeeding redemption date. Such redemption of the applicable Series of Bonds shall be made
upon full or partial payment of the principal amount of said Bonds then Outstanding and accrued
interest thereon all in accordance with the Indenture.

        Section 10.4.       Cooperation of the Authority and the Trustee. The Authority and the
Trustee shall cooperate fully with the City at the expense of the City in filing any proof of loss
with respect to any insurance policy or performance bond covering the events described in Section
10.1 of this Master Lease and in the prosecution or defense of any prospective or pending
condemnation proceeding with respect to a Project or Projects or any portion thereof or any
property of the City in connection with which a Project is used and will, to the extent it may
lawfully do so, and shall permit the City to litigate in any proceeding resulting therefrom in the
name and behalf of the Authority and the Trustee. In no event will the Authority or the Trustee
voluntarily settle, or consent to the settlement of, any proceeding arising out of any insurance claim
or any prospective or pending condemnation proceeding or any part thereof without the written
consent of the City Representative.

        Section 10.5.     Condemnation of Property Owned by the City. The City shall be
entitled to the Net Proceeds of any condemnation award or portion thereof made for destruction
of, damage to or taking of its property not included in the Projects.

                                             ARTICLE XI

  DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES; COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND RULES; OTHER
                             COVENANTS



4924-3182-7297, v. 3                               30
        Section 11.1.      Disclaimer or Warranties. NEITHER THE AUTHORITY NOR THE
TRUSTEE MAKE ANY WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION, EITHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, AS TO THE VALUE, DESIGN, CONDITION, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR FITNESS FOR USE OF THE PROJECTS OR ANY OF
THE EQUIPMENT OR FIXTURES THEREIN OR ANY OTHER REPRESENTATION OR
WARRANTY. In no event shall the Authority or the Trustee be liable for any incidental, indirect,
special or consequential damage in connection with or arising out of this Master Lease or the
existence, furnishing, functioning or the use by the City of any item, product or service provided
for herein.

       Section 11.2.      Further Assurances and Corrective Instruments. The City and the
Authority agree that they will, from time to time, execute, acknowledge and deliver, or cause to
be executed, acknowledged and delivered, such supplements hereto and such further instruments
as may reasonably be required for correcting any inadequate or incorrect description of the Projects
hereby leased or intended so to be or for carrying out the intention hereof.

        Section 11.3.      City and Authority Representatives. Whenever under the provisions
hereof the approval of the City or the Authority is required, or the City or the Authority is required
to take some action at the request of the other, such approval or such request shall be given for the
City by the City Representative and for the Authority by the Authority Representative, and any
party hereto and the Trustee shall be authorized to act on any such approval or request.

        Section 11.4.     Requirements of Law. During the Lease Term, the City and the
Authority shall observe and comply promptly with all current and future laws, ordinances, orders,
rules and regulations as the same become effective, of the federal, state, county and city
governments and of all courts or other governmental authorities having jurisdiction over the
Projects or any portion thereof and of all their respective departments, bureaus and officials, and
of the insurance regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the Projects, or any portion thereof,
or any other body exercising similar functions, and of all insurance companies writing policies
covering the Projects or any portion thereof, whether the same are in force at the commencement
of the Lease Term or may in the future be passed, enacted or directed.

        Section 11.5.      Inspection of the Projects. The City and the Authority agree that the
Trustee and the Bondholder and their duly authorized agents shall have the right at all reasonable
times to enter upon the Projects and to examine and inspect the same. The Trustee and their duly
authorized agents shall also be permitted, at all reasonable times, to examine the books, records,
reports and other papers of the City and the Authority with respect to the Projects.

        Section 11.6.      Granting of Easements and Releases. As long as no Event of Default
with respect to the Projects shall have happened and be continuing, the City may at any time or
times grant easements, licenses, rights of way and other rights or privileges in the nature of
easements with respect to any property or rights included in this Master Lease and the Indenture,
free from the security interest afforded by or under this Master Lease, the Indenture and the
Security Documents or the City may release portions of the sites on which a Project or Projects is
located or existing easements, licenses, rights of way and other rights and privileges with or
without consideration, and the Authority agrees that it shall execute and deliver and will cause and
direct the Trustee to execute and deliver, any instrument necessary or appropriate to confirm and


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             31
grant or release such portion of the Project Site or any such easement, license, right of way or other
grant or privilege upon receipt of: (i) a copy of the instrument of grant or release; (ii) a written
application signed by the City Representative requesting such instrument and stating that such
grant or release will not impair the effective use or interfere with the operation of such Projects or
any material portion thereof; and (iii) an opinion of counsel to the City that such grant or release
will not materially weaken, diminish or impair the security granted to the Bondholders and
contemplated hereby or under this Master Lease, the Indenture or the Security Documents.

       Section 11.7.      Issuance of Refunding Bonds. Refunding Bonds may be issued by the
Authority in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.13 of the General Indenture and with a
corresponding effect on the Base Rentals and Additional Rentals due under this Master Lease as
provided in Section 4.4 hereof.

       Section 11.8.      Issuance of Additional Bonds. Additional Bonds may be issued by the
Authority in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.14 of the General Indenture and with a
corresponding effect on the Base Rentals and Additional Rentals due under this Master Lease as
provided in Section 4.4 hereof.

                                             ARTICLE XII

                                  CONVEYANCE OF THE PROJECTS

         Section 12.1.        Conveyance of the Projects.

                 (a)    The Authority’s right and interest in and to all of the Projects shall be
         transferred, conveyed and assigned by the Authority to the City:

                          (i)    Upon payment by the City to the Trustee of the then applicable
                  Purchase Option Price and upon giving not less than thirty days prior written notice
                  to the Authority and the Trustee; or

                         (ii)   Upon payment by the City to the Trustee of all Base Rentals and
                  Additional Rentals required to be paid under this Master Lease during the Lease
                  Term; or

                          (iii)   Upon the discharge of the lien of the Indenture under Article VIII
                  thereof.

       Under the Indenture, the Trustee shall agree to execute such documents and instruments as
shall be necessary to effect a release of the security interest granted by said Indenture or the
Security Documents upon the payment in full of all of the Bonds.

                (b)      The City understands that the Purchase Option Price may be revised from
         time to time based on certain redemptions of Bonds (other than mandatory sinking fund
         redemptions) or the issuance of any Additional Bonds or Refunding Bonds authorized
         under the Indenture. In the event the City so elects to purchase all of the Projects as
         provided herein, the City hereby agrees to pay such applicable Purchase Option Price
         (together with the other amounts constituting the purchase price for the Projects as provided


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                               32
         herein) as it may be revised from time to time by such amounts as are necessary to reflect
         the redemption of the Bonds or the issuance of Additional Bonds or Refunding Bonds.
         Nothing herein shall be construed to create any obligation of the City to purchase the
         Projects.

                (c)     The City understands that, with respect to the Series 2025 Project, it may
         only exercise its option to purchase the Series 2025 Project only if the purchase option is
         exercised with respect to all of the various projects that comprise the Series 2025 Project.

         Section 12.2.        Release of a Project Upon Payment of Related Series of Bonds. In
addition to the purchase option set forth above, the City is hereby granted the option of purchasing
a Project in advance of the final maturity of the related Series of Bonds. So long as no Event of
Default shall have occurred and be continuing under the Indenture and so long as no Event of
Default or Event of Nonappropriation shall have occurred and be continuing under this Master
Lease and the Security Instrument Issuer for the related Series of Bonds shall have consented
thereto (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld) unless the related Series of Bonds have
been legally defeased or refunded, a Project may be released from the lien created with respect to
the Bonds and the Indenture and this Master Lease and transferred to the City (subject to Permitted
Encumbrances and liens and encumbrances resulting from the failure of the City to perform or
observe the agreements on its part contained in this Master Lease or otherwise consented to by the
City), if (i) the City shall deposit with the Trustee the Purchase Option Price for such Projects; and
(ii) there shall have been delivered to the Trustee an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel
to the effect that the release of such Projects will not adversely affect the excludability of interest
on the Tax-Exempt Bonds from federal gross income of the owners thereof or the status of the
Bonds as Tax Credit Bonds, if applicable. The City shall be obligated to pay all costs of the Trustee
and the Authority in providing for the transfer and release of any Project or portion thereof.

        Section 12.3.     Conveyance on Purchase of Projects. At the closing of any purchase of
any or all of the Projects pursuant to the option to purchase granted in this Master Lease, the
Authority shall, upon receipt by the Trustee of the Purchase Option Price, or upon the payment by
the City of all Base Rentals and Additional Rentals required, or upon discharge of the lien of the
Indenture as the case may be, deliver to the City the following:

                 (a)     If necessary, a release by the Trustee of the lien under the Indenture and
         Security Documents, together with any other instrument necessary or appropriate to release
         any security interest granted by this Master Lease with respect to the Project or Projects to
         be released, the Indenture and the Security Documents.

                 (b)     All necessary documents conveying to the City good and marketable title to
         the Project or Projects to be released as it then exists subject to the following: (i) the right,
         title and interest of the City in such Project; (ii) those liens and encumbrances created by
         the City or to the creation or suffering of which the City consented; (iii) those liens and
         encumbrances resulting from the failure of the City to perform or observe any of the
         agreements on its part contained in this Master Lease; and (iv) Permitted Encumbrances,
         other than the Indenture, this Master Lease, the Security Documents and any financing
         statements filed by the Authority pursuant to this Master Lease with respect to the Project
         or Projects to be released or the Indenture.


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                                33
         Section 12.4.      Relative Position of Option and Indenture. The purchase option granted
to the City in Section 12.1 hereof with respect to all of the Projects shall be and remain prior and
superior to the Indenture and may be exercised whether or not an Event of Nonappropriation or
Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing hereunder or under the Indenture; provided,
however, that such option must be exercised before the later of (i) ninety days after notification in
writing by the Trustee to the City of the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Indenture, or
(ii) the ultimate disposition of the Projects upon exercise of any available foreclosure remedy, and
further provided that, as a condition of the exercise of such option, the City must pay, in addition
to the Purchase Option Price, any interest payment deficiencies accruing from the date of the Event
of Default and all Security Instrument Costs, Security Repayment Obligations, Reserve Instrument
Costs and Reserve Instrument Repayment Obligations.

                                            ARTICLE XIII

              ASSIGNMENT, SUBLEASING, INDEMNIFICATION AND SELLING

        Section 13.1.      The Authority to Grant Security Interest to Trustee. The parties hereto
agree that pursuant to the Indenture, the Authority shall assign to the Trustee, in order to secure
payment of the Bonds, all of the Authority’s right, title and interest in the Master Lease, except the
Authority’s rights to compensation from the City for expenses of the Authority under Section
6.3(d) of this Master Lease, the Authority’s rights to indemnification from the City under Section
13.3 of this Master Lease and the obligation of the City to pay any attorneys’ fees and expenses
incurred by the Authority under Section 14.5 of this Master Lease.

       Section 13.2.      Assignment and Subleasing by the City. This Master Lease may not be
assigned by the City for any reason. All or portions of a Project may be subleased by the City
without the necessity of obtaining the consent of the Authority or any Bondholder; subject,
however, to each of the following conditions:

                 (a)     a Project may only be subleased to a municipality, school district, agency
         or other political subdivision of the City or the State, or to a private party if the Authority
         or the City intends to own such Project through the useful life of such Project, and the
         Authority or the City determines that such ownership of such Project furthers a legitimate
         public purpose;

                (b)    this Master Lease and the obligations of the City to make payment of Base
         Rentals and Additional Rentals under this Master Lease shall at all times during the Lease
         Term remain obligations of the City notwithstanding any sublease;

                (c)     the City shall, prior to the execution of a sublease, furnish or cause to be
         furnished to the Authority and the Trustee a true and complete copy of each sublease;

                (d)   any such sublease shall be expressly subordinate to the rights of the Trustee
         and the Bondholders under the Indenture, this Master Lease and the Security Documents;

                 (e)    receipt by the Trustee of an opinion of bond counsel to the effect that such
         sublease will not in and of itself cause interest on the Bonds issued to finance such Project
         to be included in gross income of the owners thereof (if such Bonds were issued as Tax-


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                               34
         Exempt Bonds) or will not adversely affect the status of the Bonds as Tax Credit Bonds;
         and

                 (f)    receipt by the City of the Trustee’s and the Security Instrument Issuer’s
         written consent to such sublease, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.

        After an Event of Default or an Event of Nonappropriation and the foreclosure of the
security afforded under this Master Lease, the Indenture or the Security Documents, the Trustee
may collect the amount of the Base Rentals and Additional Rentals allocable to any sublease from
any and all sublessees.

        Section 13.3.      Release and Indemnification Covenants. To the extent of the Net
Proceeds of the insurance coverage of the City, the City shall and hereby agrees to indemnify and
save the Authority and the Trustee harmless against and from all claims by or on behalf of any
person, firm, corporation or other legal entity arising from any work or thing done on the Projects
during the Lease Term from: (i) any condition of the Projects; and (ii) any act or negligence of the
City or of any of its agents, sublessees, contractors or employees or any violation of law or the
breach of any covenant or warranty hereunder. The City shall indemnify and save the Authority
and the Trustee harmless, from and to the extent of available moneys as set forth above, from any
such claim arising as aforesaid from (i) or (ii) above, or in connection with any action or proceeding
brought thereon and, upon notice from the Authority or the Trustee, shall defend them or either of
them in any action or proceeding.

        In exchange for the City’s agreement to indemnify the Trustee and the Authority as
provided in this Section 13.3, the Authority and Trustee hereby agree to cooperate with the City
in asserting any cause of action that they might individually or as a group have against any third
parties with respect to the Projects. Furthermore, in no event will the Authority or Trustee
voluntarily settle or consent to the settlement of any proceeding arising out of any claim applicable
to the Projects without the written consent of the City Representative and any Security Instrument
Issuer, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.

        Section 13.4.      References to Bonds Ineffective After Bonds Paid. Upon payment in
full of the Bonds (or provision for payment thereof having been made in accordance with the
provisions of the Indenture) and all fees and charges of Trustee, all references in this Master Lease
to said Bonds and Trustee shall be ineffective and neither the Trustee nor the Bondholders shall
thereafter have any rights hereunder, saving and excepting those that shall have theretofore vested.

        Section 13.5.      Installation of the Furnishings and Machinery of the City. The City or
any sublessee of the City may, from time to time in its sole discretion and at its own expense,
install machinery, equipment and other tangible property in a Project. All such machinery,
equipment and other tangible property, except any machinery, equipment and other tangible
property substituted for machinery, equipment and tangible property purchased with proceeds of
the Bonds as provided in Section 13.6 hereof, shall remain the sole property of the City or sublessee
of the City, as applicable, in which neither the Authority nor the Trustee shall have any interest
and may be removed by the City or sublessee of the City, as applicable, at any time; provided,
however, that the City or sublessee of the City, as applicable, shall be obligated to repair any
damage to the Projects, at its own cost and expense, resulting from any such removal.


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             35
        Section 13.6.       Equipment Purchased with Proceeds of the Bonds. Any item of
equipment shall be labeled, to the extent practicable, to indicate that it is owned by the Authority,
subject to the Indenture, the Security Documents and this Master Lease. Equipment financed with
proceeds of the Bonds may not be relocated by the City from the Projects. Any item of such
equipment which shall be determined by the City to be no longer usable in connection with the
operation of the Projects may be sold by the City after written notice to the Trustee and upon (i)
substitution of equipment of comparable or greater value or (ii) deposit of the proceeds thereof in
the Bond Fund. Upon any such sale, the equipment so sold shall be released from the Indenture,
this Master Lease, the Security Documents and the security interest created thereunder and
hereunder. The parties hereto recognize a $50,000 aggregate de minimis exception to this Section
13.6 for equipment making up a portion of the Projects.

                                            ARTICLE XIV

                             EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES

       Section 14.1.     Events of Default Defined. Any one of the following shall be an “Event
of Default” under this Master Lease:

                 (a)    Failure by the City to pay any Base Rentals or Additional Rentals required
         to be paid under Sections 6.2 and 6.3 of this Master Lease at the time specified therein, in
         the absence of an Event of Nonappropriation; or

                 (b)      Failure by the City to observe and perform any covenant, condition or
         agreement on its part to be observed or performed, other than as referred to in (a), for a
         period of thirty days after written notice, specifying such failure and requesting that it be
         remedied, given to the City by the Trustee, unless the Trustee shall agree in writing to an
         extension of such time prior to its expiration; provided, however, that if the failure stated
         in the notice cannot be corrected within the applicable period, the Trustee shall not
         unreasonably withhold their consent to an extension of such time if corrective action shall
         be instituted by the City within the applicable period and diligently pursued until the default
         is corrected; or

                  (c)   The City shall abandon any material portion of a Project; or

                (d)     The City’s interest in this Master Lease or any part thereof shall be assigned
         or transferred without the written consent of the Authority, either voluntarily or by
         operation of law, except as permitted hereunder; or

                 (e)     The City shall file any petition or institute any proceedings wherein or
         whereby the City seeks to be adjudicated a bankrupt, or to be discharged from any and all
         of its debts or obligations, or offers to the City’s creditors to effect a composition or
         extension of time to pay the City’s debts, or seeks a reorganization or a readjustment of the
         City’s debts, or for any other similar release, or any such petition or any such proceedings
         of the same or similar kind or character shall be filed, or instituted or taken against the City
         and the same shall not have been dismissed or otherwise resolved in favor of the City within
         sixty days from the filing or institution thereof; or



4924-3182-7297, v. 3                               36
                  (f)   Dissolution of the Authority prior to the full repayment of the Series 2025
         Bonds.

        The foregoing provisions of this Section 14.1 are subject to the following limitations: (i)
the obligations of the City to make payments of the Base Rentals and Additional Rentals as
provided in Section 6.2 and Section 6.3 of this Master Lease shall be subject to the occurrence of
an Event of Nonappropriation; and (ii) if, by reason of Force Majeure, the City shall be unable, in
whole or in part, to carry out any agreement on its part herein contained, other than the obligations
on the part of the City contained in Article VI hereof, the City shall not be deemed in default during
the continuance of such inability. The City agrees, however, to remedy with all reasonable dispatch
the cause or causes preventing the City from carrying out its agreement; provided, however, that
the settlement of strikes, lockouts and other industrial disturbances shall be entirely within the
discretion of the City, and the City shall not be required to make settlement of strikes, lockouts
and other industrial disturbances by acceding to the demands of the opposing party or parties when
such course is, in the judgment of the City, unfavorable to the City.

        Section 14.2.       Remedies on Default. Whenever any Event of Default referred to in
Section 14.1 of this Master Lease shall have happened and be continuing, subject to the limitations
contained in the Indenture and the rights of any Security Instrument Issuer (so long as the Security
Instrument Issuer is not in default under its Security Instrument), the Trustee or the Authority with
the written consent of the Trustee, shall have the right, at their or its option without any further
demand or notice, to take one or any combination of the following remedial steps:

                  (a)   Immediately reenter and take possession of the Projects;

                 (b)    Exercise any rights or remedies the Trustee may have under the Indenture
         or the Security Documents; or

                (c)     Take whatever action at law or in equity may appear necessary or desirable
         to enforce their or its rights in and to the Projects, including, without limitation, the right
         to terminate the Lease Term.

       Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the City shall immediately quit and vacate the
Projects and its obligation to pay Base Rentals or Additional Rentals hereunder shall terminate.
Any moneys collected pursuant to action taken under this Section 14.2 shall be paid into the Bond
Fund and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.

       Section 14.3.      Limitations on Remedies. No judgment requiring a payment of money
may be entered against the City by reason of an Event of Default under this Master Lease, except
as expressly provided herein. In the event the security interest created under the Indenture, this
Master Lease or the Security Documents shall be foreclosed subsequent to the occurrence of an
Event of Default, no deficiency judgment may be entered against the City or the Authority.

        Section 14.4.       No Remedy Exclusive. No remedy herein conferred upon or reserved
to the Authority and the Trustee is intended to be exclusive, and every such remedy shall be
cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter
existing at law or in equity. No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon an
Event of Default shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver thereof,


4924-3182-7297, v. 3                               37
but any such right and power may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed
expedient. In order to entitle the Authority and the Trustee to exercise any remedy reserved in this
Article XIV, it shall not be necessary to give any notice, other than such notice as may be required
in this Article XIV.

        Section 14.5.      Agreement to Pay Attorneys’ Fees and Expenses. In the event that
either party hereto shall default under any of the provisions hereof and the non-defaulting party
shall employ attorneys or incur other expenses for the collection of Base Rentals and Additional
Rentals, or the enforcement of performance or observance of any obligation or agreement on the
part of the defaulting party herein contained, the defaulting party agrees that it shall on demand
therefor pay to the non-defaulting party the fees of such attorneys and such other expenses so
incurred by the non-defaulting party, to the extent that such attorneys’ fees and expenses may be
determined to be reasonable by a court of competent jurisdiction; provided, however, that the
obligation of the City under this Section 14.5 shall be subject to the availability of City Funds and
the obligation of the Authority shall be limited to amounts legally available therefor.

        Section 14.6.     No Additional Waiver Implied by One Waiver. In the event that any
agreement contained herein should be breached by either party and thereafter waived by the other
party, such waiver shall be limited to the particular breach so waived and shall not be deemed to
waive any other breach hereunder.

                                          ARTICLE XV

                                       MISCELLANEOUS

       Section 15.1.       Lease Term. This Master Lease shall remain in effect from the date
hereof until the termination of the Lease Term as provided in Section 4.2 of this Master Lease.

        Section 15.2.       Notices. All notices, certificates or other communications hereunder
shall be sufficiently given and shall be deemed given when delivered or mailed by registered or
certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: if to the Authority, the Local Building
Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, 4580 S. 2300 E., Holladay, Utah 84117, Attention:
Chair/President; if to the City, 4580 S. 2300 E., Holladay, Utah 84117, Attention: Mayor; if to the
Trustee, [TRUSTEE], [TRUSTEE ADDRESS], Attention: Corporate Trust Department. A
duplicate copy of each notice, certificate or other communication given hereunder by the Authority
and the City shall also be given to the Trustee. The Authority, the City and the Trustee may, by
notice given hereunder, designate any further or different addresses to which subsequent notices,
certificates or other communications shall be sent.

       Section 15.3.      Binding Effect. This Master Lease shall inure to the benefit of and shall
be binding upon the Authority, the City and their respective successors and assigns, subject,
however, to the limitations contained in Sections 2.2(f) and 13.2 of this Master Lease.

       Section 15.4.      Severability. In the event any provision of this Master Lease (other than
the obligation of the City to pay Base Rentals or Additional Rentals) shall be held invalid or
unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not invalidate or render
unenforceable any other provision hereof and in the event any provision of this Master Lease were



4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             38
to invalidate the Bonds, such provision shall be rendered invalid and unenforceable, but shall not
invalidate or render unenforceable any other provision hereof.

       Section 15.5.       Amounts Remaining in the Bond Fund and Debt Service Reserve Fund;
Dissolution. It is agreed by the parties hereto that any amounts remaining in the Bond Fund and
the Debt Service Reserve Fund upon expiration or sooner termination of the Lease Term, as
provided in this Master Lease, after payment in full of the Bonds (or provision for payment thereof
having been made in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture) and the fees and expenses
of Trustee and any paying agents in accordance with the Indenture and all other amounts due under
the Indenture and payment of all Security Instrument Costs, Security Instrument Repayment
Obligations, Reserve Instrument Costs and Reserve Instrument Repayment Obligations, shall
belong to and be paid to the City by the Trustee as an overpayment of Base Rentals and Additional
Rentals. Upon dissolution of the Authority, after payment in full of the Bonds (or provision for
payment thereof having been made in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture) and
payment in full of other obligations of the Authority, Security Instrument Costs, Security
Instrument Repayment Obligations, Reserve Instrument Costs and Reserve Instrument Repayment
Obligations any assets and net earnings of the Authority shall be paid to the City in accordance
with the Building Authority Act.

        Section 15.6.     Amendments, Changes and Modifications. Subsequent to the issuance
of the Bonds and prior to their payment in full (or provision for the payment thereof having been
made in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture), and except as otherwise herein expressly
provided, this Master Lease may not be effectively amended, changed, modified, altered or
terminated without the written consent of the Trustee and any Security Instrument Issuer in
accordance with provisions of the Indenture.

       Section 15.7.      Execution in Counterparts. This Master Lease may be simultaneously
executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which shall constitute
but one and the same instrument.

       Section 15.8.       Net Lease. This Master Lease shall be deemed and construed to be a
“net lease,” and the City shall pay absolutely net during the Lease Term the Base Rentals,
Additional Rentals and all other payments required hereunder, free of any deductions, and without
abatement, deduction or setoff, other than those herein expressly provided.

       Section 15.9.      Applicable Law. This Master Lease shall be governed by and construed
in accordance with the laws of the State.

       Section 15.10.     Captions. The captions or headings in this Master Lease are for
convenience only and in no way define, limit or describe the scope or intent of any provisions or
Sections of this Master Lease.

       Section 15.11.     No Personal Liability. No person executing this Master Lease or any of
the Bonds, the Indenture or the Security Documents shall be subject to personal liability or
accountability by reason of such action or the issuance of the Bonds.




4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             39
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Authority has caused this Master Lease to be executed in
its corporate name with its corporate seal hereunto affixed and attested by a duly authorized officer.
The City has executed this Master Lease in its name with its seal hereunto affixed and attested by
a duly authorized officer. All of the above occurred as of the date first above written.



                                                   LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY
                                                   OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH


(SEAL)
                                                   By: ________________________________
                                                                Chair/President

ATTEST AND COUNTERSIGN:



By: _________________________________
           Secretary-Treasurer




                                                   THE CITY OF HOLLADAY


(SEAL)
                                                  By: ________________________________
                                                                  Mayor


ATTEST AND COUNTERSIGN:



By: _________________________________
             City Recorder




4924-3182-7297, v. 3                             S-1
STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ____________, 2025, by,
__________ and __________, respectively the Chair/President and Secretary-Treasurer of the
Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah.




                                              ____________________________________
                                                         NOTARY PUBLIC




STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

      The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this _____________, 2025, by
__________ and __________, respectively the Mayor and City Recorder of the City of Holladay,
Utah.


                                              ____________________________________
                                                         NOTARY PUBLIC




4924-3182-7297, v. 3                        S-2
                                           EXHIBIT A

                                   PROJECT DESCRIPTION

The acquisition and construction of a park and recreation facility and all related improvements and
the renovation, retrofit and improvements of a city hall, including seismic upgrades and related
improvements.




4924-3182-7297, v. 3                           A-1
                                        EXHIBIT B

                                      PROJECT SITE

       All real property located or the land located in Salt Lake County, Utah, described as
follows:




4924-3182-7297, v. 3                        B-1
                                            EXHIBIT C

                                    FORM OF REQUISITION


RE: The Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah Lease Revenue [Refunding]
Bonds, Series __________ in the sum or $______________

[TRUSTEE]
[TRUSTEE ADDRESS]

       You are hereby authorized to disburse from the Series ____ Construction Fund Account
with regard to the above-referenced bond issue the following:

REQUISITION NUMBER: _________________________

NAME AND ADDRESS OF PAYEE:

____________________________________

____________________________________

____________________________________

AMOUNT: $____________________

PURPOSE FOR WHICH EXPENSE HAS BEEN INCURRED (bill or statement of account or
summary of expenses to be reimbursed to City attached; partial release from all contractors,
subcontractors and suppliers who have provided services or materials to
the Series ____ Project on file with the City):
________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________


Each obligation, item of cost, or expense mentioned herein has been properly incurred, is a proper
charge against [the __________ Subaccount of] the Series ____ Construction Fund Account, has
not been the basis for a previous withdrawal, constitutes a Cost of Acquisition and Construction
of the Series ____ Project and will be used to acquire, purchase, construct, install or improve the
Series ____ Project.

There has not been filed or served upon the Authority or the City, notice of any lien, right to lien,
attachment upon, or claim affecting the right to receive payment of, any of the moneys payable to
any of the persons named in this Requisition, which has not been released or will not be released



4924-3182-7297, v. 3                            C-1
simultaneously with such payment, other than materialmen’s or mechanics’ liens accruing by
operation of law which will not be released until final payment is made.

Performance, labor, materials and other bonds as required in the Master Lease have been
obtained by each contractor or subcontractor to whom payment is to be made pursuant to this
Requisition.

DATED __________________________

                                           THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH


                                           By: ________________________________

                                           Its: ________________________________




4924-3182-7297, v. 3                         C-2
                                    EXHIBIT D

                       BASE RENTAL PAYMENT SCHEDULE


           Date         Principal            Interest   Total




4924-3182-7297, v. 3                   D-1
                            EXHIBIT E

                       SECURITY DOCUMENTS




4923-6281-6609, v. 3           E-1
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:

Randall M. Larsen
Gilmore & Bell, P.C.
15 W. South Temple, Suite 1400
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101

                                 LEASEHOLD DEED OF TRUST,
                                   ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS
                                           AND
                                   SECURITY AGREEMENT

        THIS LEASEHOLD DEED OF TRUST, ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS AND SECURITY
AGREEMENT (“Deed of Trust”) is made as of __________, 2025, by and among the Local
Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, a nonprofit corporation duly organized under
the laws of the State of Utah (“Trustor”) whose address for purposes of this agreement is 4580 S.
2300 E., Holladay, Utah 84117; and [TITLE INSURANCE AGENCY NAME], whose place of
business is [TITLE INSURANCE AGENCY ADDRESS] (“Trustee”) as trustee under this Deed
of Trust, and [TRUSTEE], whose place of business is [TRUSTEE ADDRESS] (the
“Beneficiary”), as trustee under a General Indenture of Trust dated as of __________, 2025 (the
“General Indenture”) as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture of Trust dated as of
__________, 2025 (the “First Supplemental Indenture” and together with the General Indenture,
the “Indenture”) executed in connection with the issuance of the $[PAR] Local Building Authority
of the City of Holladay, Utah, Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025 (the “Series 2025 Bonds”).

                                        W I T N E S S E T H:

        FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, including the indebtedness herein
recited and the trust herein created, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, Trustor hereby
irrevocably grants, transfers, assigns, conveys and warrants to Trustee for the benefit of the
Beneficiary, IN TRUST, WITH POWER OF SALE, under and subject to the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth, that estate created by and all right, title and interest of the Trustor as lessee
under that certain Ground Lease Agreement dated as of __________, 2025 (the “Ground Lease”),
by and between the City of Holladay, (the “City”) as lessor and Trustor as lessee, which Ground
Lease demises and leases that property situated in Salt Lake County, Utah described in Exhibit A
attached hereto (the “Property”), including, but not limited to, all of Trustor’s right, title and
interest in and to all the improvements on said Property and appurtenances. The interests of Trustor
in the Property as described in the attached Exhibit A and all of the improvements and
appurtenances relating thereto are collectively referred to hereinafter as the “Project”;

       TOGETHER WITH all rents, issues, profits, privileges, licenses, royalties, income and
other benefits derived from the Project (collectively the “rents”);

         TOGETHER WITH all right, title and interest of Trustor in and to all leases or subleases
covering the Project or any portion thereof now or hereafter existing or entered into, and all right,
title and interest of Trustor thereunder, including, without limitation, all cash or security deposits,
advance rentals, and deposits and payments of similar nature;


4909-2340-5153, v. 3                               1
        TOGETHER WITH all right, title and interest of Trustor in and to all options to purchase
or lease the Project or any portion thereof or interest thereon, and any greater estate in the Project
owned or hereafter acquired;

       TOGETHER WITH all interests, estate or other claims, both in law and in equity, which
Trustor now has or may hereafter acquire in the Project;

        TOGETHER WITH all right, title and interest of Trustor in and to all easements, rights-of-
way and rights used in connection with or as a means of access thereto, and all tenements,
hereditaments and appurtenances thereof and thereto;

        TOGETHER WITH all right, title and interest of Trustor, now owned or hereafter acquired,
in and to any land lying within the right-of-way of any street, open or proposed, adjoining the
Project, and any and all sidewalks, alleys and strips and gores of land adjacent to or used in
connection with the Project;

        TOGETHER WITH all right, title and interest of Trustor in and to any and all buildings
and improvements now or hereafter erected on the Property, including, but not limited to, the
fixtures, fittings, and other articles attached to said buildings and improvements financed or
refinanced with proceeds of the Series 2025 Bonds or any Additional Bonds or Refunding Bonds
(these and all terms herein commencing with initial capital letters and not otherwise defined herein
shall have meanings as defined in the Indenture), including but not limited to all machinery,
equipment, material, appliances and fixtures now or hereafter installed or placed in said buildings
or on the Property, together with all substitutions, replacements and renewals thereof, for the
generation or distribution of air, water, heat, electricity, light, fuel or refrigeration or for ventilating
or air conditioning purposes or for sanitary or drainage purposes, for the removal of dust, refuse
or garbage, and including stoves, ranges, cabinets, laundry equipment, all elevators, awnings,
window shades, venetian blinds, drapery rods and brackets, screens, floor coverings, including all
rugs and carpets attached to floors, lobby furnishings and incinerators and all other similar items
and things; all of the items and things so specified and all other similar items or things, whether
now or hereafter placed on the Property, being hereby declared to be, and in all circumstances,
shall be construed to be, for and in connection with the purposes and powers of this Deed of Trust,
things affixed to and a part of the Project described herein; the specific enumerations herein not
excluding the general (the “Improvements”); excepting any personal property or fixtures of any
tenant which are not financed or refinanced with proceeds of the Series 2025 Bonds or any
Additional Bonds or Refunding Bonds (the Series 2025 Bonds and Additional Bonds and
Refunding Bonds are collectively referred to herein as the “Bonds”); and

        TOGETHER WITH all the estate, interest, right, title and other claim or demand, including
claims or demands with respect to the proceeds of insurance in effect with respect thereof, which
Trustor now has or may hereafter acquire in the Project, and any and all awards made for the taking
from the Trustor by eminent domain, or by any proceeding or purchase in lieu thereof, of the whole
or any part of the Project, including without limitation any awards resulting from a change of grade
of streets and awards for severance damages; and

       TOGETHER WITH all right, title and interest of Trustor in and to all tangible personal
property financed or refinanced with proceeds of the Series 2025 Bonds or any Additional Bonds


4909-2340-5153, v. 3                                 2
or Refunding Bonds (the “Personal Property”) owned by Trustor and now or at any time hereafter
located on or at the Project or used in connection therewith, including, but not limited to:
furnishings, machinery and equipment, together with all substitutions, replacements and renewals
thereof.

        The entire estate, Property and interest hereby conveyed to Trustee as described above may
hereafter be referred to as the “Trust Estate.” Notwithstanding the breadth of the foregoing, the
property covered by this Deed of Trust shall not include: (i) personal property which may be owned
by lessees or other occupants of any portion of the Project, rather than by Trustor, or which may
be leased by such lessees or other occupants from a party other than Trustor; or (ii) material,
equipment, tools, machinery or other personal property which has been brought upon the Project
only for use in construction, maintenance or repair and which is not intended to remain after the
completion of such construction, maintenance or repair, and which is not necessary for occupancy,
maintenance or use of the Project or the improvements thereon, provided, however, that this
provision shall not limit Trustor’s right to assert a landlord’s lien against a defaulting tenant.

                            FOR THE PURPOSES OF SECURING:

        (A)    (1) Payment of the principal, interest and premium, if any, of the Series 2025 Bonds
of Trustor, issued pursuant to the Indenture, and payable at the times, in the manner and with
interest and premium, if any, as therein set forth, and any extensions and/or renewals or
modifications thereof; (2) payment of the principal, interest and premium, if any, on any Additional
Bonds or Refunding Bonds issued pursuant to the Indenture, and payable at the times, in the
manner and with interest and premium as therein set forth, and any extensions and/or renewals or
modifications thereof; (3) the performance of each agreement of Trustor contained in the Bonds,
the Indenture, the Master Lease with respect to the Project and this Deed of Trust and any other
instrument securing payment of the Bonds; and (4) the payment of all sums expended or advanced
by Beneficiary under or pursuant to the terms of this Deed of Trust (including, but not limited to
the payments outlined in Sections 1.11 and 1.18 of this Deed of Trust), any other instrument
securing payment of the Bonds, the Indenture or the Master Lease, together with interest thereon
as provided in the Indenture.

       (B)     Performance of all obligations of Trustor under the Indenture and each agreement
of Trustor incorporated by reference therein or herein, or contained therein or herein.
       (C)     Performance of all obligations of Trustor contained in this Deed of Trust, the
Bonds, the Indenture and any other instrument given to evidence or further secure the payment
and performance of any obligation secured hereby.

        This Deed of Trust, the Bonds, the Indenture, the Ground Lease, the Master Lease and any
other instrument given to evidence or further secure the payment and performance of any
obligation secured hereby may hereafter be referred to as the “Loan Instruments.”

    TO PROTECT THE SECURITY OF THE LOAN INSTRUMENTS TRUSTOR HEREBY
COVENANTS AND AGREES AS FOLLOWS:




4909-2340-5153, v. 3                             3
                                            ARTICLE I

                       COVENANTS AND AGREEMENTS OF TRUSTOR

       Section 1.1 Payment of Secured Obligations. Trustor hereby covenants and agrees to
pay when due the principal of, premium, if any, and the interest on, the indebtedness evidenced by
the Bonds (as set forth therein), all charges, fees and all other sums as provided in the Loan
Instruments, and the principal of, and interest on, any future advances secured by this Deed of
Trust.

         Section 1.2 Maintenance, Repair. Alterations. Trustor hereby covenants and agrees to
keep the Trust Estate or cause the Trust Estate to be kept in good condition and repair; not to
remove, demolish or materially alter (except such alterations as may be required by laws,
ordinances or regulations) any buildings or fixtures constituting part of the Improvements in such
a manner as to in any way damage the Improvements or in any way reduce the fair rental value of
the Improvements to less than the fair rental value of the Improvements immediately prior to such
alteration; to complete promptly and in good and workmanlike manner any improvement which
may be constructed on the Project and, to the extent provided in the Indenture and in the Master
Lease, promptly restore in like manner any Improvements which may be damaged or destroyed
thereon, and to pay when due all claims for labor performed and materials furnished therefor, to
comply with all laws, ordinances, regulations, covenants, conditions and restrictions now or
hereafter affecting the Trust Estate or any part thereof or requiring any alterations or
improvements; not to commit or permit any waste or deterioration of the Trust Estate, to keep and
maintain or cause to be kept and maintained, grounds, sidewalks, roads, parking and landscaped
areas in good and neat order and repair; not to commit, suffer or permit any act to be done in or
upon the Trust Estate in violation of any law, ordinance or regulation. Trustee, upon presentation
to it of an affidavit signed by Beneficiary, setting forth facts showing a default by Trustor under
this Section 1.2, is authorized to accept as true and conclusive all facts and statements therein, and
to act thereon hereunder.

        Section 1.3   Required Insurance. Trustor hereby covenants and agrees to at all times
provide, maintain and keep in force or cause to be kept in force such insurance as is set forth in
Article IX of the Master Lease with respect to the Improvements.

         Section 1.4 Payment of Premiums. In the event Trustor fails to provide (as may be
evidenced by certificate), maintain, keep in force or deliver and furnish to Beneficiary policies of
insurance required by Article IX of the Master Lease, Beneficiary, in addition to all other rights it
may have hereunder, including, without limitation, those set forth in Article III hereof, may, but
shall not be required to, procure such insurance or single interest insurance for such risks covering
Beneficiary’s interest, and Trustor will pay, or cause to be paid, all premiums thereon promptly
upon demand by Beneficiary, and until such payment is made by Trustor therefor the amount of
all such premiums which have been paid by Beneficiary shall bear interest at a rate per annum
provided in Article IX of the Master Lease. Trustor shall, upon Beneficiary’s reasonable request,
deposit, or cause to be deposited, with Beneficiary in monthly installments, an amount equal to
one-twelfth of the estimated aggregate annual insurance premiums on all policies of insurance
required by this Deed of Trust. Trustor further agrees, upon Beneficiary’s request, to cause all
bills, statements or other documents relating to the foregoing insurance premiums to be sent or


4909-2340-5153, v. 3                              4
mailed directly to Beneficiary. Upon receipt of such bills, statements or other documents, and
provided Trustor has deposited sufficient funds with Beneficiary pursuant to this Section 1.4,
Beneficiary shall pay such amounts as may be due thereunder out of the funds so deposited with
Beneficiary. If at any time and for any reason the funds deposited with Beneficiary are or will be
insufficient to pay such amounts as may then or subsequently be due, Beneficiary shall notify
Trustor and Trustor shall immediately deposit, or cause to be deposited, an amount equal to such
deficiency with Beneficiary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained herein shall cause
Beneficiary to be deemed a trustee of said funds or to be obligated to pay any amounts in excess
of the amount of funds deposited with Beneficiary pursuant to this Section 1.4.

       Section 1.5 Insurance Proceeds. After the happening of any casualty to the Trust Estate
or any part thereof, Trustor shall give prompt written notice thereof to Beneficiary.

                 (a)    In the event of any damage or destruction of the Project, Trustor shall apply
         the insurance proceeds in the manner set forth in Article X of the Master Lease.

                 (b)     In the event of such loss or damage, all proceeds of insurance shall be
         payable pursuant to subparagraph (a) above. Except as otherwise provided in the Master
         Lease, Trustor may settle, adjust or compromise any claims for loss, damage or destruction
         under any policy or policies of insurance only with written approval of Beneficiary, but
         subject to the rights of Bondholders under the Indenture.

                 (c)     Except to the extent that insurance proceeds are received by Trustor and
         applied to the indebtedness secured hereby, pursuant to the Indenture and the Master Lease,
         nothing herein contained shall be deemed to excuse Trustor from repairing or maintaining
         the Trust Estate as provided in Section 1.2 hereof or restoring all damage or destruction to
         the Trust Estate, regardless of whether or not there are insurance proceeds available or
         whether any such proceeds are sufficient in amount, and the application or release by
         Beneficiary of any insurance proceeds shall not cure or waive any default or notice of
         default under this Deed of Trust or invalidate any act done pursuant to such notice.

        Section 1.6 Assignment of Policies Upon Foreclosure. In the event of foreclosure of this
Deed of Trust or other transfer of title or assignment of the Trust Estate in extinguishment, in
whole or in part, of the debt secured hereby, all right, title and interest of Trustor in and to all
policies of insurance required by this Deed of Trust shall inure to the benefit of and pass to the
successor in interest to Trustor or the purchaser or grantee of the Trust Estate.

         Section 1.7    Indemnification; Subrogation; Waiver of Offset.

                 (a)     If Beneficiary is made a party defendant to any litigation, commenced by
         anyone other than Trustor, concerning this Deed of Trust or the Trust Estate or any part
         thereof or interest therein, or the occupancy thereof by Trustor, except in cases of fraud,
         gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of Beneficiary, then Trustor shall, to the
         extent permitted by law, indemnify, defend and hold Beneficiary harmless from and against
         all liability by reason of said litigation (including any appeals), including reasonable
         attorneys’ fees and expenses incurred by Beneficiary in any such litigation, whether or not
         any such litigation is prosecuted to judgment. If Beneficiary commences an action against



4909-2340-5153, v. 3                              5
         Trustor to enforce any of the terms hereof or because of the breach by Trustor of any of the
         terms hereof, or for the recovery of any sum secured hereby, Trustor shall pay to
         Beneficiary reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses actually incurred (including
         Beneficiary’s attorney’s fees and costs associated with all appeals), and the right to such
         attorney’s fees and expenses shall be deemed to have accrued on the commencement of
         such action, and shall be enforceable whether or not such action is prosecuted to judgment.
         If Trustor breaches any term of this Deed of Trust, Beneficiary may employ an attorney or
         attorneys to protect its rights hereunder, and in the event of such employment following
         any breach by Trustor, Trustor shall pay Beneficiary reasonable attorney’s fees and
         expenses incurred by Beneficiary (including those associated with any appeal), whether or
         not an action is actually commenced against Trustor by reason of breach.

                 (b)    Trustor waives any and all right to claim or recover against Beneficiary, its
         officers, employees, agents and representatives, for loss or damage to Trustor, the Trust
         Estate, Trustor’s property or the property of others under Trustor’s control from any cause
         insured against or required to be insured against by the provisions of this Deed of Trust.

                 (c)      All sums payable by Trustor hereunder shall be paid without notice,
         demand, counterclaim, setoff, recoupment, deduction or defense (except payment) and
         without abatement, suspension, deferment, diminution or reduction, and the obligations
         and liabilities of Trustor hereunder shall in no way be released, discharged or otherwise
         affected (except as expressly provided herein) by reason of: (i) any damage to or
         destruction of or any condemnation or similar taking of the Trust Estate or any part thereof;
         (ii) any restriction or prevention of or interference with any use of the Trust Estate or any
         part thereof; (iii) any title defect or encumbrance or any eviction from the Project or any
         part thereof by title paramount or otherwise; or (iv) any bankruptcy, insolvency,
         reorganization, composition, adjustment, dissolution, liquidation or other like proceeding
         relating to Beneficiary, or any action taken with respect to this Deed of Trust by any trustee
         or receiver of Beneficiary, or by any court, in any such proceeding; whether or not Trustor
         shall have notice or knowledge of any of the foregoing.

         Section 1.8    Taxes and Impositions.

                 (a)    Trustor agrees to pay, prior to delinquency, all real property taxes and
         assessments, general and special, and all other taxes and assessments of any kind or nature
         whatsoever, including without limitation non-governmental levies or assessments such as
         maintenance charges, association dues or charges or fees, and levies or charges resulting
         from covenants, conditions and restrictions affecting the Trust Estate, which are assessed
         or imposed upon the Trust Estate or become due and payable, and which create or may
         create a lien upon the Trust Estate, or any part thereof, or upon any equipment or other
         facility used by Trustor in the operation or maintenance thereof (all of which taxes,
         assessments and other governmental charges of like nature are hereinafter referred to as
         “Impositions”); provided, however, that if, by law, any such Imposition is payable, or may
         at the option of the taxpayer be paid, in installments, Trustor may pay the same together
         with any accrued interest on the unpaid balance of such Imposition in installments as the
         same become due and before any fine, penalty, interest or cost may be added thereto for
         the nonpayment of any such installment and interest.


4909-2340-5153, v. 3                               6
                 (b)    If any time after the date hereof there shall be assessed or imposed (i) a tax
         or assessment on the Trust Estate in lieu of or in addition to the Impositions payable by
         Trustor pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof, or (ii) a license fee, tax or assessment imposed
         on Beneficiary and measured by or based in whole or in part upon the amount of the
         outstanding obligations secured hereby, then all such taxes, assessments, or fees shall be
         deemed to be included within the term “Impositions” as defined in subparagraph (a) hereof,
         and Trustor shall pay and discharge the same as herein provided with respect to the
         payment of Impositions. Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, Trustor shall have no
         obligation to pay any franchise, estate, inheritance, income, excess profits or similar tax
         levied on Beneficiary or on the obligations secured hereby.

                (c)     Trustor covenants to furnish Beneficiary within thirty (30) days after the
         date upon which any such Imposition is due and payable by Trustor, official receipts of the
         appropriate taxing authority or other proof satisfactory to Beneficiary, evidencing the
         payment thereof.

                 (d)     Trustor covenants and agrees not to suffer, permit or initiate the joint
         assessment of the real and personal property, or any other procedure whereby the lien of
         the real property taxes and the lien of the personal property taxes shall be assessed, levied
         or charged to the Trust Estate as a single lien.

                (e)     If requested by Beneficiary, Trustor shall cause to be furnished to
         Beneficiary a tax reporting service covering the Trust Estate of the type, duration and with
         a company satisfactory to Beneficiary.

                (f)      Trustor has the right to contest Impositions to the extent permitted by
         Section 9.3 of the Master Lease.

        Section 1.9 Utilities. Trustor hereby covenants and agrees to pay when due all utility
charges which are incurred by Trustor for the benefit of the Trust Estate or which may become a
charge or lien against the Trust Estate for gas, electricity, water or sewer services furnished to the
Trust Estate and all other assessments or charges of a similar nature, whether public or private,
affecting the Trust Estate or any portion thereof, whether or not such taxes, assessments or charges
are liens thereon.

        Section 1.10 Actions Affecting Trust Estate. Trustor hereby covenants and agrees to
appear in and contest any action or proceeding purporting to affect the security hereof or the rights
or powers of Beneficiary or Trustee; and to pay all costs and expenses, including cost of evidence
title and attorney’s fees, in any such action or proceeding in which Beneficiary or Trustee may
appear.

       Section 1.11 Actions by Trustee and/or Beneficiary to Preserve Trust Estate. Should
Trustor fail to make any payment or to do any act as and in the manner provided in any of the Loan
Instruments, Beneficiary and/or Trustee, each in its own discretion, without obligation so to do but
without releasing Trustor from any obligations, may make or do the same in such manner and to
such extent as either may deem necessary to protect the security hereof. In connection therewith
(without limiting their general powers), Beneficiary and/or Trustee shall have and are hereby given



4909-2340-5153, v. 3                              7
the right, but not the obligation (i) to enter upon and take possession of the Trust Estate; (ii) to
make additions, alterations, repairs and improvements to the Trust Estate which they or either of
them may consider necessary or proper to keep the Trust Estate in good condition and repair; (iii)
to appear and participate in any action or proceeding affecting or which may affect or appears to
affect the security of this Deed of Trust (including condemnation or eminent domain proceedings)
or which may result in the creation of any lien (except the lien created by the Indenture) against
the Trust Estate; and (iv) in exercising such powers, to pay necessary expenses, including
employment of counsel or other necessary or desirable consultants. Trustor shall, immediately
upon demand therefor by Beneficiary, pay all costs and expenses incurred by Beneficiary in
connection with the exercise by Beneficiary of the foregoing rights, including without limitation,
costs of evidence of title, court costs, appraisals, surveys and attorney’s fees, together with interest
thereon accruing at the rate set forth in the Indenture.

        Section 1.12 Survival of Warranties. Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 5.9
herein, Trustor hereby covenants and agrees to fully and faithfully satisfy and perform the
obligations of Trustor contained in the Loan Instruments and each agreement of Trustor
incorporated by reference therein or herein, and any modification or amendment thereof. All
representations, warranties and covenants of Trustor contained therein or incorporated by
reference shall survive funding of the loan evidenced by the Bonds and shall remain continuing
obligations, warranties and representations of Trustor during any time when any portion of the
obligations secured by this Deed of Trust remain outstanding.

        Section 1.13 Eminent Domain. Should the Trust Estate, or any material part thereof or
interest therein, be taken from Trustor or damaged by reason of any public improvement or
condemnation proceeding, or in any other manner (“Condemnation”), or should Trustor receive
any notice or other information regarding such proceeding, Trustor shall give prompt written
notice thereof to Beneficiary and all proceeds payable therefrom shall be utilized in the manner set
forth in Article X of the Master Lease.

        Section 1.14 Additional Security. In the event Beneficiary at any time holds additional
security for any of the obligations secured hereby, it may enforce the sale thereof or otherwise
realize upon the same, at its option, either before or concurrently herewith or after a sale is made
hereunder.

       Section 1.15 Appointment of Successor Trustee. Beneficiary may, from time to time, by
complying with the provisions of the applicable law of the State of Utah substitute a successor or
successors to the Trustee named herein or acting hereunder.

        Section 1.16 Successors and Assigns. This Deed of Trust applies to, inures to the benefit
of and binds all parties hereto, their heirs, legatees, devisees, administrators, executors, successors
and assigns. The term “Beneficiary” shall be deemed to include the Registered Owners of the
Bonds and any trustee therefor, whether or not named as Beneficiary herein.

        Section 1.17 Inspections. Beneficiary, or his agents, representatives or workmen, are
authorized to enter at any reasonable time upon or in any part of the Trust Estate for the purpose
of inspecting the Trust Estate and performing any of the acts it is authorized to perform under the
terms of any of the Loan Instruments.


4909-2340-5153, v. 3                               8
        Section 1.18 Liens. Trustor hereby covenants and agrees to pay and promptly discharge
in accordance with the terms thereof or of the indebtedness secured thereby, at Trustor’s cost and
expense, all liens, encumbrances and charges upon the Trust Estate, or any part thereof or interest
therein; provided that the existence of any mechanic’s, laborer’s, materialman’s, supplier’s or
vendor’s lien or right thereto shall not constitute a violation of this Section 1.18 if payment is not
yet due under the contract which is the foundation thereof and if such contract does not postpone
payment for more than 60 days after the performance thereof. Trustor shall have the right to contest
in good faith the validity of any such lien, encumbrance or charge. In the event of any such contest,
the Trustor may permit the lien, encumbrance or charge so contested to remain unpaid during the
period of such contest and any appeal therefrom unless the Trustee or Beneficiary shall notify the
Trustor that, in the opinion of Independent Counsel, by nonpayment of any such items the security
afforded pursuant to the Indenture and the Master Lease or this Deed of Trust will be materially
endangered or the Trust Estate or any portion thereof will be subject to loss or forfeiture, in which
event such lien, encumbrance or charge shall be paid forthwith. Prior to commencing such contest,
Trustor shall first deposit, or cause to be deposited, with Beneficiary, or in court, a bond or other
security satisfactory to Beneficiary, at Beneficiary’s election, in such amounts as Beneficiary shall
reasonably require, but not more than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the amount of the claim,
and provided further that Trustor shall thereafter diligently proceed to cause such lien,
encumbrance or charge to be removed and discharged. If Trustor shall fail to discharge any such
lien, encumbrance or charge, then, in addition to any other right or remedy of Beneficiary,
Beneficiary may, but shall not be obligated to, discharge or purchase the same, either by paying
the amount claimed to be due, or by procuring the discharge of such lien by depositing in court a
bond or the amount claimed or otherwise giving security for such claim, or in such manner as is
or may be prescribed by law.

         Section 1.19 Trustee’s Powers. At any time, or from time to time, without liability
therefor, and without notice, upon written request of Beneficiary and presentation of this Deed of
Trust, and without affecting the personal liability of any person for payment of the indebtedness
secured hereby or the effect of this Deed of Trust upon the remainder of said Trust Estate, Trustee
may, (i) reconvey any part of said Trust Estate; (ii) consent in writing to the making of any map
or plat thereof; or (iii) join in granting any easement or creating any restriction affecting this Deed
of Trust or any agreement subordinating the lien or charge hereof, subject to the rights of
Bondholders under the Indenture.

        Section 1.20 Beneficiary’s Powers. Without affecting the liability of any other person
liable for the payment of any obligation herein mentioned, and without affecting the lien or charge
of this Deed of Trust upon any portion of the Trust Estate not then or theretofore released as
security for the full amount of all unpaid obligations, Beneficiary may, from time to time and
without notice (i) release any person so liable, (ii) extend the maturity or alter any of the terms of
any such obligation, (iii) grant other indulgences, (iv) release or reconvey, or cause to be released
or reconveyed at any time at Beneficiary’s option any parcel, portion or all of the Trust Estate, (v)
take or release any other or additional security for any obligation herein mentioned, or (vi) make
compositions or other arrangements with debtors in relation thereto. Trustor hereby consents to
the foregoing powers and rights of Beneficiary, and, to the extent permitted by law, waives any
right to assert that such actions by the Beneficiary shall constitute a breach by the Beneficiary
under this Deed of Trust, under any of the Loan Instruments or under applicable law.



4909-2340-5153, v. 3                              9
                                            ARTICLE II

                       ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS, ISSUES AND PROFITS

         Section 2.1 Assignment of Rents. Trustor hereby assigns and transfers to Beneficiary
all the rents, issues and profits of the Trust Estate, and hereby gives to and confers upon
Beneficiary the right, power and authority to collect such rents, issues and profits. Trustor
irrevocably appoints Beneficiary its true and lawful attorney-in-fact, at the option of Beneficiary
at any time and from time to time, to demand, receive and enforce payment, to endorse instruments
payable to Trustor, and to give receipts, releases and satisfactions for all such rents, issues and
profits and apply the same to the indebtedness secured hereby. The assignment of the rents, issues
and profits of the Trust Estate in this Article II is intended to be an absolute assignment from
Trustor to Beneficiary and not merely the passing of a security interest.

        Section 2.2     Collection Upon Default. Upon any event of default under any of the Loan
Instruments, and after the passage of any applicable grace period, Beneficiary may, at any time
without notice, either in person, by agent or by a receiver appointed by a court, and without regard
to the adequacy of any security for the indebtedness hereby secured, enter upon and take possession
of the Trust Estate, or any part thereof, and in its own name sue for or otherwise collect such rents,
issues and profits of the Trust Estate, including those past due and unpaid, and apply the same, less
costs and expenses of operation and collection, including attorneys’ fees, upon any indebtedness
secured hereby, and in such order as Beneficiary may determine, subject to the rights of
Bondholders under the Indenture. The collection of rents, issues and profits, or the entering upon
and taking possession of the Trust Estate, or the application thereof as aforesaid, shall not cure or
waive any default, notice of default, or notice of sale hereunder or invalidate any act done in
response to such default or pursuant to such notice of default. Failure or discontinuance by
Beneficiary at any time or from time to time to collect any such rents, issues or profits shall not in
any manner affect the subsequent enforcement by Beneficiary of the right, power and authority to
collect the same.

                                            ARTICLE III

                                    SECURITY AGREEMENT

         Section 3.1    Creation of Security Interest. Trustor hereby grants to Beneficiary a
security interest in the Personal Property for the purpose of securing all obligations of Trustor
contained in any of the Loan Instruments or herein. This Deed of Trust shall be deemed the
Security Agreement as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code of Utah and the remedies for any
violation of the covenants, terms and conditions of the agreements herein contained shall be (i) as
prescribed herein, or (ii) as provided by general law, or (iii) as to such part of the security which
is also reflected in any financing statement or statements (the “Financing Statement”) as provided
by the specific statutory consequences now or hereafter enacted and specified in the Uniform
Commercial Code of Utah, all at Beneficiary’s sole election, subject to the rights of Bondholders,
under the Indenture. The mention in any such Financing Statement of (1) the rights in or the
proceeds of any fire and/or hazard insurance, (2) any award in eminent domain proceedings for a
taking or for loss of value, or (3) the Trustor’ s interest as lessor in any present or future lease or
rights to income growing out of the use and/or occupancy of the premises shall never be construed


4909-2340-5153, v. 3                              10
as in any wise altering any of the rights of Beneficiary as determined by this Deed of Trust or
impugning the priority of the Beneficiary’s lien granted hereby or by any other recorded document,
but such mention in the Financing Statement is declared to be for the protection of Beneficiary in
the event any court or judge shall at any time with respect to (1), (2) or (3) rule that notice of
Beneficiary’s priority of interest to be effective against a particular class of persons, divisions or
entity of the Federal Government, must be filed in the Uniform Commercial Code records.

       Section 3.2 Warranties, Representations and Covenants of Trustor. Trustor hereby
warrants, represents and covenants as follows:

        Trustor is, and as to portions of the Personal Property to be acquired after the date hereof
will be, the sole owner of the Personal Property, free from any adverse lien, security interest,
encumbrance or adverse claims thereon of any kind whatsoever except for the Permitted
Encumbrances defined in the Master Lease and except for the security interest granted hereby.
Trustor will notify Beneficiary of, and will defend the Personal Property against, all claims and
demands of all persons at any time claiming the same or any interest therein.

        Trustor will not sell the Personal Property without the prior written consent of Beneficiary
unless said personal property is promptly replaced by personal property of like quality and value.

         The Personal Property is not used or bought for personal, family or household purposes.

        The Personal Property (with the exception of funds held by Beneficiary) will be kept on or
at the Project and, except as otherwise provided in the Master Lease, Trustor will not remove the
Personal Property from the Project without the prior written consent of Beneficiary, except such
portions or items of Personal Property which are consumed or worn out in ordinary usage, all of
which shall be promptly replaced by Trustor.

        Trustor maintains a place of business in the State of Utah and Trustor will immediately
notify Beneficiary in writing of any change in its place of business as set forth in the beginning of
this Deed of Trust.

         At the request of Beneficiary, Trustor will join Beneficiary in executing one or more
financing statements, continuation statements and renewals and amendments thereof pursuant to
the Uniform Commercial Code of Utah in form satisfactory to Beneficiary, and will pay the cost
of filing the same in all public offices wherever filing is deemed by Beneficiary to be necessary or
desirable.

       All covenants and obligations of Trustor contained herein relating to the Trust Estate shall
be deemed to apply to the Personal Property whether or not expressly referred to herein.

                                           ARTICLE IV

                                  REMEDIES UPON DEFAULT

        Section 4.1    Events of Default. Any of the following events shall be deemed an event of
default hereunder.



4909-2340-5153, v. 3                             11
                 (a)     Default shall be made in the payment of any installment of principal or
         interest or any other sum secured hereby; or

                 (b)    There shall occur an Event of Default set forth in Section 9.1 of the
         Indenture, or 14.1 of the Master Lease or any other default under any of the Loan
         Instruments, including but not limited to any breach in the due observance or performance
         of any covenant, condition or agreement contained therein.

        Section 4.2 Acceleration Upon Default, Additional Remedies. Time is of the essence
hereof. In the event of any event of default hereunder, Beneficiary may declare all indebtedness
secured hereby to be due and payable by written notice to the Trustor as outlined in Section 9.2 of
the General Indenture and the same shall thereupon become due and payable without presentment,
demand, protest or notice of any kind. Thereafter Beneficiary may exercise any or all of the
following remedies, or any other remedies which Beneficiary is entitled to under any of the Loan
Instruments or applicable law:

                 (a)     Either in person or by agent, with or without bringing any action or
         proceeding, or by a receiver appointed by a court and without regard to the adequacy of its
         security, enter upon and take possession of the Trust Estate, or any part thereof, in its own
         name or in the name of Trustee, and do any acts which it deems necessary or desirable to
         preserve the value, marketability or rentability of the Trust Estate, or a part thereof or
         interest therein, increase the income therefrom or protect the security hereof and, with or
         without taking possession of the Trust Estate, sue for or otherwise collect the rents, issues
         and profits thereof, including those past due and unpaid, and apply the same, less costs and
         expenses of operation and collection including attorney’s fees, upon any indebtedness
         secured hereby, all in such order as Beneficiary may determine, subject to the rights of the
         Bondholders under the Indenture. The entering upon and taking possession of the Trust
         Estate, the collection of such rents, issues and profits and the application thereof as
         aforesaid, shall not cure or waive any default or notice of default hereunder or invalidate
         any act done in response to such default or pursuant to such notice of default and,
         notwithstanding the continuance in possession of the Trust Estate or the collection, receipt
         and application of rents, issues or profits, Trustee and/or Beneficiary shall be entitled to
         exercise every right provided for in any of the Loan Instruments or by law upon occurrence
         of any event of default, including the right to exercise the power of sale;

                 (b)     Commence an action to foreclose this Deed of Trust as a mortgage, appoint
         a receiver, or specifically enforce any of the covenants hereof; and/or

                (c)     Cause Trustor’ s interest in the Trust Estate to be sold by the Trustee under
         the power of sale set forth herein.

       Section 4.3     Foreclosure by Power of Sale. Should Beneficiary elect to foreclose by
exercise of the power of sale herein contained, Beneficiary shall notify Trustee and shall deposit
with Trustee this Deed of Trust and such receipts and evidence of expenditures made and secured
hereby as Trustee may require; provided, however, that the Trustee shall also notify the City of the
Event of Default and of the City’s right, within 90 days following its receipt of such notice, to
exercise its option and purchase the Project as more fully outlined in Section 9.2 of the General


4909-2340-5153, v. 3                              12
Indenture and Article XII of the Master Lease. If the City fails to exercise such option and purchase
the Project on or prior to the expiration of such 90-day period, the Trustee shall proceed as follows:

                  (a)     Trustee shall exercise on behalf of Beneficiary the power of sale granted
         herein by complying with all requirements of applicable law. Trustee shall execute and
         deliver to the purchaser or purchasers of the Trust Estate its good and sufficient deed or
         deeds conveying the property so sold, but without any covenant or warranty, express or
         implied. The recitals in such deed of any matters or facts shall be conclusive proof of the
         truthfulness thereof. Any person, including without limitation, Trustor, Trustee or
         Beneficiary, may purchase at such sale and Trustor hereby covenants to warrant and defend
         the title of such purchaser or purchasers from claims arising by, through or under Trustor.

                 (b)     After deducting all costs, fees and expenses of Trustee and of this trust,
         including, but not limited to, attorney fees and costs, and costs of evidence of title in
         connection with the sale, Trustee shall apply the proceeds of sale to payment of: all sums
         expended under the terms hereof, not then repaid, with accrued interest per annum as set
         forth in the Indenture; all other sums then secured hereby; and the remainder, if any, to the
         person or persons legally entitled thereto, or the Trustee, in its discretion, may deposit the
         balance of such proceeds with the county clerk of the county in which the sale took place.

                (c)     The person conducting the sale may, for any cause such person deems
         expedient, postpone the sale in accordance with Utah law and, in every case, notice of such
         postponement shall be given by public declaration by such person at the time and place last
         appointed for the sale.

       Section 4.4 Foreclosure as Mortgage. Should Beneficiary elect to foreclose this Deed
of Trust in the manner provided by law for the foreclosure of mortgages on real property,
Beneficiary shall be entitled to recover in such proceeding all costs and expenses incident thereto,
including a reasonable attorney’s fee in such amount as shall be fixed by the court, including all
appeals. To the extent permitted by law, Beneficiary shall be entitled to possession of the Project
during any redemption period allowed under the laws of the State of Utah.


        Section 4.5 Appointment of Receiver. If any event of default described in Section 4.1
of this Deed of Trust shall have occurred and be continuing, Beneficiary, as a matter of right and
without notice to Trustor or anyone claiming under Trustor, and without regard to the then value
of the Trust Estate or the interest of Trustor therein, shall have the right to apply to any court
having jurisdiction to appoint a receiver or receivers of the Trust Estate, and Trustor hereby
irrevocably consents to such appointment and waives notice of any application therefor. Any such
receiver or receivers shall have all the usual powers and duties of receivers in like or similar cases
and all powers and duties of Beneficiary in case of entry as provided in Section 4.2(a) and shall
continue as such and exercise all such powers until the date of confirmation of sale of the Trust
Estate unless such receivership is sooner terminated. Beneficiary’s rights under this Section 4.5
shall be in addition to, and not a limitation of, Beneficiary’s rights under Section 2.2 and 4.2(a) of
this Deed of Trust.




4909-2340-5153, v. 3                              13
        Section 4.6 Remedies Not Exclusive. Trustee and Beneficiary, and each of them, shall
be entitled to enforce payment and performance of any indebtedness or obligations secured hereby
and to exercise all rights and powers under this Deed of Trust, under any Loan Instrument or other
agreement, and under any laws now or hereafter in force, notwithstanding that some or all of the
said indebtedness and obligations secured hereby may now or hereafter be otherwise secured,
whether by mortgage, deed of trust, pledge, lien, assignment or otherwise. Neither the acceptance
of this Deed of Trust nor its enforcement whether by court action or pursuant to the power of sale
or other powers herein contained, shall prejudice or in any manner affect Trustee’s or Beneficiary’s
right to realize upon or enforce any other security now or hereafter held by Trustee or Beneficiary,
it being agreed that Trustee and Beneficiary, and each of them, shall be entitled to enforce this
Deed of Trust and any other security now or hereafter held by Beneficiary or Trustee in such order
and manner as they or either of them in their absolute discretion determine. No remedy herein
conferred upon or reserved to Trustee or Beneficiary is intended to be exclusive of any other
remedy herein or by law provided or permitted, but each shall be cumulative and shall be in
addition to every other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or
by statute. Every power or remedy given by any of the Loan Instruments to Trustee or Beneficiary
or to which either of them may be otherwise entitled, may be exercised, concurrently or
independently, from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient by Trustee or
Beneficiary and either of them may pursue inconsistent remedies.

       Section 4.7    Request for Notice. Trustor hereby requests a copy of any Notice of Default
or Notice of Sale hereunder be mailed to it at the address set forth in the first paragraph of this
Deed of Trust.

                                           ARTICLE V

                                       MISCELLANEOUS

        Section 5.1 Governing Law; Severability of Provisions of Loan Instruments; Waivers,
etc. This Deed of Trust shall be governed by the laws of the State of Utah. In the event that any
provision of any of the Loan Instruments conflicts with applicable laws, such conflicts shall not
affect other provisions of such Loan Instruments which can be given effect without the conflicting
provision, and to this end the provisions of the Loan Instruments are declared to be severable. This
instrument cannot be waived, changed, discharged or terminated orally, but only by an instrument
in writing signed by the parties against whom enforcement of any waiver, change, discharge or
termination is sought.

        Section 5.2 Limitation of Interest. It is the intent of Trustor and Beneficiary in the
execution of this Deed of Trust and the Bonds and all other instruments securing the Bonds to
contract in strict compliance with the laws of the State of Utah governing the loan evidenced by
the Bonds. In furtherance thereof, Trustor stipulates and agrees that none of the terms and
provisions contained in the Loan Instruments shall ever be construed to create a contract for the
use, forbearance or detention of money requiring payment of interest at a rate in excess of the
maximum interest rate permitted to be charged by the laws of the State of Utah governing the loan
evidenced by the Bonds. Trustor or any guarantor, endorser or other party now or hereafter
becoming liable for the payment of the Bonds shall never be liable for unearned interest on the
Bonds and shall never be required to pay interest on the Bonds at a rate in excess of the maximum


4909-2340-5153, v. 3                            14
interest that may be lawfully charged under the laws of the State of Utah and the provisions of this
Section shall control over all other provisions of the Bonds and any other instrument executed in
connection herewith which may be in apparent conflict herewith. In the event any holder of the
Bonds shall collect monies which are deemed to constitute interest which would otherwise increase
the effective interest rate on the Bonds to a rate in excess of that permitted to be charged by the
laws of the State of Utah, all such sums deemed to constitute interest in excess of the legal rate
shall be immediately returned to the Trustor upon such determination.

       Section 5.3 Statements by Trustor. Trustor, within ten (10) days after receiving a request
from the Beneficiary, will furnish to Beneficiary a written statement stating the unpaid principal
and any interest on the Bonds and any other amounts secured by this Deed of Trust and stating
whether any offset or defense exists against such principal and interest.

       Section 5.4     Reconveyance by Trustee. Portions of the Property may be released by the
Trustee upon compliance with the provisions of Section 11.6 of the Master Lease. Upon written
request of Beneficiary stating that all sums secured hereby have been paid, and upon surrender of
this Deed of Trust to Trustee for cancellation and retention and upon payment by Trustor of
Trustee’s fees, Trustee shall reconvey to the person or persons legally entitled thereto, without
warranty, any portion of the Trust Estate then held hereunder. The recitals in such reconveyance
of any matters or facts shall be conclusive proof of the truthfulness thereof. The grantee in any
reconveyance may be described as “the person or persons legally entitled thereto.”

         Section 5.5 Notices. Whenever Beneficiary, Trustor or Trustee shall desire to give or
serve any notice, demand, request or other communication with respect to this Deed of Trust, each
such notice, demand, request or other communication shall be in writing and shall be effective
only if the same is delivered by personal service or four (4) days after being mailed by registered
or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the address set forth at the
beginning of this Deed of Trust. Any party may at any time change its address for such notices by
delivering or mailing to the other parties hereto, as aforesaid, a notice of such change.

       Section 5.6 Acceptance by Trustee. Trustee shall be deemed to have accepted this Trust
when this Deed of Trust, duly executed and acknowledged, is made a public record as provided by
law.

        Section 5.7 Captions. The captions or headings at the beginning of each Section hereof
are for convenience of the parties and are not a part of this Deed of Trust.

        Section 5.8 No Merger. If both the Trustor’s and Beneficiary’s estates in any portion of
the Trust Estate shall at any time become vested in one owner, this Deed of Trust and the lien
created hereby shall not be destroyed or terminated by application of the doctrine of merger, and
in such event, Beneficiary shall continue to have and enjoy all of the rights and privileges of
Beneficiary as to the separate estates. In addition, upon the foreclosure of the lien created by this
Deed of Trust on the Trust Estate pursuant to the provisions hereof, any leases or subleases then
existing and created by Trustor shall not be destroyed or terminated by application of the law of
merger or as a matter of law or as a result of such foreclosure unless Beneficiary or any purchaser
at any such foreclosure sale shall so elect. No act by or on behalf of Beneficiary or any such




4909-2340-5153, v. 3                              15
purchaser shall constitute a termination of any lease or sublease unless Beneficiary or such
purchaser shall give written notice thereof to such tenant or subtenant.

        Section 5.9 Limited Right of Bondholders Against the Trustor. Notwithstanding
anything else contained herein to the contrary, the rights of the Trustee, Beneficiary and the
Bondholders to exercise remedies against the Trustor in accordance with this Deed of Trust are
subject to the terms and provisions of the Indenture and the Master Lease, in particular but not
limited to Article XIV of the Master Lease and Article IX of the General Indenture. Additionally,
no deficiency judgment upon foreclosure may be entered against the City of Holladay, Utah, the
State of Utah or any of its political subdivisions.

       Section 5.10 No Waiver. Failure on the part of Beneficiary to promptly enforce any right
hereunder shall not operate as a waiver of such right and the waiver by Beneficiary of any default
or acceptance of payment of any sum secured hereby after its due date shall not constitute a waiver
of any other subsequent default.

         Section 5.11 Severability. The terms and provisions of this Deed of Trust are intended to
be performed in accordance with, and only to the extent permitted by, applicable law. If any
provision hereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall, for any reason and
to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, neither the remainder of this instrument nor the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall be affected thereby, but
rather, the same shall be enforced to the greatest extent permitted by law.

         Section 5.12 Substitution of Property. The property relating to the Ground Lease and that
is the subject of this Deed of Trust may be substituted upon (i) delivery of a new Exhibit A hereto,
(ii) delivery of any amendment hereto required by any such substitution and (iii) satisfaction of
the conditions set forth in Section 14.4(b) of the Ground Lease.




4909-2340-5153, v. 3                            16
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Trustor has executed this Deed of Trust as of the day and year
first above written.

                                             LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY
                                             OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH


(SEAL)
                                             By: ________________________________
                                                           Chair/President


ATTEST AND COUNTERSIGN:



By: ________________________________
            Secretary-Treasurer




4909-2340-5153, v. 3                       S-1
STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On _________, 2025, the foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me by
__________ and __________, the Chair/President and Secretary-Treasurer, respectively, of the
Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah.




                                          ____________________________________
                                                        Notary Public




4909-2340-5153, v. 3                        S-2
                                           EXHIBIT A

                                           PROPERTY

         The real property located in Salt Lake County, Utah, described as follows:




4909-2340-5153, v. 3                            A-1
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:

Randall Larsen
Gilmore & Bell, P.C.
15 W. South Temple, Suite 1400
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101


                       ASSIGNMENT OF GROUND LEASE AGREEMENT

        THIS ASSIGNMENT, made and entered into this ________, 2025, by the LOCAL
BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH a Utah nonprofit
corporation, whose address is 4580 S. 2300 E., Holladay, Utah 84117 (the “Assignor”), to and in
favor of [TRUSTEE], a national banking association, having its principal office in Salt Lake City,
Utah (“Trustee”), as Trustee under a General Indenture of Trust dated as of ________, 2025, by
and between the Assignor and the Trustee (the “General Indenture’’), as further supplemented by
a First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of ________, 2025 (the “First Supplemental Indenture,”
and together with the General Indenture, the “Indenture”).

                                        WITNESSETH:

         FOR VALUE RECEIVED, Assignor hereby grants, transfers and assigns to Trustee all the
right, title and interest of Assignor in and to that certain Ground Lease Agreement (the “Ground
Lease”) dated as of ________, 2025, between Assignor, as lessee, and the City of Holladay, Utah,
as lessor, which Ground Lease demises the real property located in Salt Lake County, State of
Utah, more particularly described in Exhibit A attached hereto and by this reference made a part
hereof

FOR THE PURPOSE OF SECURING:

        (A)    The payment and performance of each and every obligation of Assignor contained
in the Indenture and in Assignor’s Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025, and any Additional Bonds
or Refunding Bonds (as defined in the Indenture) (collectively, the “Bonds”); and

        (B)   The payment of all sums expended or advanced by Trustee pursuant to the terms of
this Assignment and the Indenture, or any instrument further evidencing or securing any obligation
secured hereby, together with interest thereon as therein provided.

TO PROTECT THE SECURITY OF THIS ASSIGNMENT, ASSIGNOR AGREES:

        (1)    To faithfully abide by, perform and discharge every obligation, covenant and
agreement of the Ground Lease to be performed by the lessee thereunder; at the sole cost and
expense of Assignor, to enforce or secure the performance of every obligation, covenant, condition
and agreement of the Ground Lease to be performed by the lessor thereunder; not to modify, extend
or in any way alter the terms of the Ground Lease without the prior written consent of Trustee.
Assignor also agrees not to waive or in any manner release or discharge the lessor thereunder of
or from the obligations, covenants, conditions and agreements to be performed by lessor.


4901-5084-8097, v. 2
        (2)    Not to declare the Ground Lease terminated nor to exercise any other right available
to it upon breach by the lessor thereunder, without the prior written consent of Trustee.

        (3)    At Assignor’s sole cost and expense, to appear in and defend any action or
proceedings arising under, growing out of or in any manner connected with the Ground Lease or
the obligations, duties or liabilities of lessor and lessee thereunder.

        (4)     That should the Assignor fail to make any payment or to do any act as herein
provided, then Trustee, but without obligation so to do and without notice to or demand on
Assignor, and without releasing Assignor from any obligation hereof, may make or do the same in
such manner and to such extent as Trustee may deem necessary to protect the security hereof,
including specifically, without limiting its general powers, the right to appear in and defend any
action or proceeding purporting to affect the security hereof or the rights or powers of Trustee, and
also the right to perform and discharge each and every obligation, covenant and agreement of
Assignor contained in the Ground Lease.

         IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED THAT:

         (1)    Upon or any time after default by Assignor in the payment of any indebtedness
secured hereby or in the performance of any obligation, covenant or agreement herein or in said
Indenture, Trustee may declare all sums secured hereby immediately due and payable, and may,
at its option, without notice, either in person or by agent with or without bringing any action or
proceedings, or by a receiver to be appointed by a court, enter upon, take possession of, manage
and operate said demised premises or any part thereof; make, cancel, enforce or modify leases; do
any acts which Trustee deems proper to protect the security hereof, and either with or without
taking possession of said property, in its own name sue for or otherwise collect and receive such
rents, issues and profits, including those past due and unpaid, and apply the same, less costs and
expenses of operation and collection including reasonable attorneys’ fees, upon any indebtedness
secured hereby, and in the order set forth in the Indenture. The entering upon and taking possession
of said property, the collection of such rents, issues, and profits, and the application thereof as
aforesaid shall not cure or waive any default or waive, modify, or effect notice of default under
any instrument secured hereby or invalidate any act done pursuant to such notice. The remedies of
the Trustee herein shall be subject to the limitations set forth in Article IX of the General Indenture.

       Any default by Assignor in the performance of any obligation, covenant or agreement
herein contained and the acceleration of the indebtedness secured hereby shall constitute and be
deemed to be a default under the terms of the Indenture.


        (2)     Trustee shall not be obligated to perform or discharge, nor does it hereby undertake
to perform or discharge, any obligation, duty or liability under the Ground Lease, or under or by
reason of this Assignment.

        (3)   Until the indebtedness secured hereby shall have been paid in full, Assignor
covenants and agrees to transfer and assign to Trustee any and all subleases upon all or any part
of said demised premises upon the same or substantially the same terms and conditions as are


4901-5084-8097, v. 2                               2
herein contained, and to make, execute and deliver to Trustee, upon demand, any and all
instruments that may be necessary therefor.

      (4)    Upon the payment in full of all indebtedness secured hereby, this Assignment shall
become and be void and of no effect.

        (5)    This Assignment applies to, inures to the benefit of, and binds the parties hereto,
their successors, and assigns.

       (6)     All notices, demands, or documents of any kind which Trustee may be required or
may desire to serve upon Assignor hereunder, may be served by delivering the same to Assignor
personally or by leaving a copy of such notice, demand or document addressed to Assignor at the
address set forth in the beginning of this Assignment, or by depositing a copy of such notice,
demand or document in the United States mail, postage prepaid, and addressed to Assignor at
Assignor’s address.

       (7)     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, no deficiency judgment
upon any foreclosure may be entered against the Assignor, the City of Holladay, Utah, the State
of Utah or any of its political subdivisions.




4901-5084-8097, v. 2                            3
        EXECUTED as of the day and year first above written.

                                              LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY
                                              OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH


(SEAL)
                                              By: ________________________________
                                                           Chair/President


ATTEST:



By: _________________________________
           Secretary-Treasurer

                                              [TRUSTEE]




                                              By: ________________________________

                                              Title: _______________________________




4901-5084-8097                       S-1
                    ASSIGNMENT OF GROUND LEASE AGREEMENT
                                 CONSENT TO ASSIGNMENT

        The City of Holladay, as lessor under the Ground Lease hereby consents to the assignment
by the Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah, of its interest in the Ground Lease
to the within mentioned Trustee to secure the within described Indenture and Bonds.

        Executed as of the day and year first above written.

                                                 CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH


(SEAL)
                                                 By: ________________________________
                                                                 Mayor

ATTEST:



By: ______________________________
            City Recorder




4901-5084-8097                        S-2
                     ASSIGNMENT OF GROUND LEASE AGREEMENT
STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On _______________, 2025, the foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me by
__________ and __________, the Chair/President and Secretary-Treasurer, respectively, of the
Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah.



                                              ____________________________________
                                                            Notary Public
(SEAL)




4901-5084-8097                      S-3
                   ASSIGNMENT OF GROUND LEASE AGREEMENT
STATE OF UTAH                    )
                         : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE              )

      On ___________, 2025, the foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me by
__________, a trust officer of [TRUSTEE].



                                         ____________________________________
                                                      Notary Public
(SEAL)




4901-5084-8097                    S-4
                 ASSIGNMENT OF GROUND LEASE AGREEMENT
                                        EXHIBIT A

       All real property located or the land located in Salt Lake County, Utah, described as
follows:




4901-5084-8097, v. 2                        A-1
                              EXHIBIT F

                       BOND PURCHASE CONTRACT




4923-6281-6609, v. 3             F-1
                                 BOND PURCHASE CONTRACT


                                    Local Building Authority of
                                     the City of Holladay, Utah
                                 Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025


__________, 2025

Local Building Authority of
 the City of Holladay, Utah
4580 S. 2300 E.
Holladay, Utah


City of Holladay, Utah
4580 S. 2300 E.
Holladay, Utah

         The undersigned, ________________________________ (the “Underwriter”), on behalf
of itself and not as fiduciary or agent for you, offers to enter into this Bond Purchase Contract (the
“Purchase Contract”) with the Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah (the
“Issuer”) and the City of Holladay, Utah (the “City”) which, upon the acceptance by the Issuer and
the City of this offer, shall be in full force and effect in accordance with its terms and shall be
binding upon each of you and the Underwriter.

        This offer is made subject to your acceptance and approval on or before 11:59 p.m. Utah
Time, on the date hereof. Terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings as are
set forth in the hereinafter referred to Official Statement.

                                             ARTICLE I

                              SALE, PURCHASE AND DELIVERY

        Section 1.1. (a) On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements
contained herein and upon the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Underwriter hereby agrees
to purchase, and the Issuer hereby agrees to sell to the Underwriter, all, but not less than all, of the
Issuer’s $__________ aggregate principal amount of Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025 (the
“Series 2025 Bonds”), at a purchase price of $__________ (representing the principal amount of
the Series 2025 Bonds, [plus a reoffering premium] of $__________ and less an Underwriter’s
discount of $_______). The Series 2025 Bonds will mature on the dates and in the amounts and
bear interest at the rates per annum as set forth in Exhibit A hereto.

               (b)     The Series 2025 Bonds shall be as described in the Official Statement dated
         __________, 2025 of the Issuer relating to the Series 2025 Bonds (together with all
         appendices thereto, the “Official Statement”), shall be issued and secured under and


4898-4664-8929, v. 3                               1
         pursuant to (i) the Local Government Bonding Act, Title 11, Chapter 14, Utah Code
         Annotated 1953, as amended, and the Local Building Authority Act, Title 17D, Chapter 2,
         Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended (the “Building Authority Act”), and (ii) a General
         Indenture of Trust dated as of ________, 2025 (the “General Indenture”), as supplemented
         by a First Supplemental Indenture of Trust dated as of _______, 2025 (the “First
         Supplemental Indenture,” and together with the General Indenture, the “Indenture”), each
         between the Issuer and [TRUSTEE], as trustee (the Trustee”). The Series 2025 Bonds are
         secured under the Indenture and the Security Documents (as defined in the Indenture). The
         Series 2025 Bonds are authorized pursuant to resolutions of the Issuer adopted on _______,
         2025 and _______, 2025 (together, the “Resolution”) by the Governing Board of the Issuer
         (the “Board”) which provides for the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds and approved
         pursuant to a resolution of the City (the “Approval Resolution”) adopted by its City Council
         on _______, 2025.

                 (c)      The Series 2025 Bonds are being issued for the purpose of (i) financing all
         or a portion of the costs of the acquisition and construction of a park and recreation facility
         and all related improvements and the renovation, retrofit and improvements of a city hall,
         including seismic upgrades and related improvements (collectively, the “Series 2025
         Project” or the “Project”); and (ii) paying costs associated with the issuance of the Series
         2025 Bonds. Pursuant to an annually renewable Master Lease Agreement dated as of
         ________, 2025, as amended by a First Amendment to Master Lease Agreement dated as
         of _______, 2025 (together, the “Lease”), the Series 2025 Project will be leased by the City
         from the Issuer in consideration of the payment of Rentals (as defined in the Lease).

                (d)     The Indenture, the Lease, the Security Documents, and the Ground Lease
         (as such terms are defined in the Official Statement), the Series 2025 Bonds, the
         Resolution, and the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking (defined below) and this Purchase
         Contract are sometimes referred to collectively herein as the “Transaction Documents.”

                  (e)    The Underwriter agrees to make an initial public offering of the Series 2025
         Bonds at the offering prices or yields set forth on the inside front cover page of the Official
         Statement. Subject to Section 1.2 below, the Underwriter may, however, change such
         initial offering prices or yields as it may deem necessary, in its discretion, in connection
         with the marketing of the Series 2025 Bonds and offer and sell the Series 2025 Bonds to
         certain dealers (including dealers depositing the Series 2025 Bonds into investment trusts)
         and others at prices lower than the initial offering prices or yields set forth in the Official
         Statement. The Underwriter also reserves the right (i) to engage in transactions that
         stabilize, maintain or otherwise affect the market prices of the Series 2025 Bonds and (ii)
         to discontinue such transactions, if commenced, at any time without prior notice.

        Section 1.2. (a) The Underwriter agrees to assist the Issuer in establishing the issue price
of the Series 2025 Bonds and shall execute and deliver to the Issuer at Closing an “issue price” or
similar certificate, together with the supporting pricing wires or equivalent communications,
substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, with such modifications as may be
appropriate or necessary, in the reasonable judgment of the Underwriter, the Issuer and Bond
Counsel, to accurately reflect, as applicable, the sales price or prices or the initial offering price or
prices to the public of the Series 2025 Bonds. All actions to be taken by the Issuer under this


4898-4664-8929, v. 3                               2
section to establish the issue price of the Series 2025 Bonds may be taken on behalf of the Issuer
by the Issuer’s municipal advisor identified herein and any notice or report to be provided to the
Issuer may be provided to the Issuer’s municipal advisor.

         (b)    Except as otherwise set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto, the Issuer will treat the
first price at which 10% of each maturity of the Series 2025 Bonds (the “10% test”) is sold to the
public as the issue price of that maturity. At or promptly after the execution of this Purchase
Contract, the Underwriter shall report to the Issuer the price or prices at which it has sold to the
public each maturity of Series 2025 Bonds. If at that time the 10% test has not been satisfied as to
any maturity of the Series 2025 Bonds, the Underwriter agrees to promptly report to the Issuer the
prices at which it sells the unsold Series 2025 Bonds of that maturity to the public. That reporting
obligation shall continue, whether or not the Closing Date (as defined herein) has occurred, until
either (i) the Underwriter has sold all Series 2025 Bonds of that maturity or (ii) the 10% test has
been satisfied as to the Series 2025 Bonds of that maturity; provided that, the Underwriter’s
reporting obligation after the Closing Date may be at reasonable periodic intervals or otherwise
upon request of the Issuer or bond counsel. For purposes of this Section, if Series 2025 Bonds
mature on the same date but have different interest rates, each separate CUSIP number within that
maturity will be treated as a separate maturity of the Series 2025 Bonds.

        (c)     The Underwriter confirms that it has offered the Series 2025 Bonds to the public
on or before the date of this Purchase Contract at the offering price or prices (the “initial offering
price”), or at the corresponding yield or yields, set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto, except as
otherwise set forth therein. Exhibit A also sets forth, as of the date of this Purchase Contract, the
maturities, if any, of the Series 2025 Bonds for which the 10% test has not been satisfied and for
which the Issuer and the Underwriter agree that the restrictions set forth in the next sentence shall
apply, which will allow the Issuer to treat the initial offering price to the public of each such
maturity as of the sale date as the issue price of that maturity (the “hold-the-offering-price rule”).
So long as the hold-the-offering-price rule remains applicable to any maturity of the Series 2025
Bonds, the Underwriter will neither offer nor sell unsold Series 2025 Bonds of that maturity to any
person at a price that is higher than the initial offering price to the public during the period starting
on the sale date and ending on the earlier of the following:

                  (1)    the close of the fifth (5th) business day after the sale date; or

                 (2)    the date on which the Underwriter has sold at least 10% of that maturity of
         the Series 2025 Bonds to the public at a price that is no higher than the initial offering price
         to the public.

        The Underwriter will advise the Issuer promptly after the close of the fifth (5th) business
day after the sale date whether it has sold 10% of that maturity of the Series 2025 Bonds to the
public at a price that is no higher than the initial offering price to the public.

         (d)      The Underwriter confirms that:

                 (i)     any selling group agreement and any third-party distribution agreement
         relating to the initial sale of the Series 2025 Bonds to the public, together with the related
         pricing wires, contains or will contain language obligating each dealer who is a member of



4898-4664-8929, v. 3                                3
         the selling group and each broker-dealer that is a party to such third-party distribution
         agreement, as applicable:

                          (A)      (i) to report the prices at which it sells to the public the unsold Series
                  2025 Bonds of each maturity allocated to it, whether or not the Closing Date has
                  occurred, until either all Series 2025 Bonds of that maturity allocated to it have
                  been sold or it is notified by the Underwriter that the 10% test has been satisfied as
                  to the Series 2025 Bonds of that maturity, provided that, the reporting obligation
                  after the Closing Date may be at reasonable periodic intervals or otherwise upon
                  request of the Underwriter, and (ii) to comply with the hold-the-offering-price rule,
                  if applicable, if and for so long as directed by the Underwriter,

                         (B)     to promptly notify the Underwriter of any sales of Series 2025
                  Bonds that, to its knowledge, are made to a purchaser who is a related party to an
                  underwriter participating in the initial sale of the Series 2025 Bonds to the public
                  (each such term being used as defined below), and

                         (C)      to acknowledge that, unless otherwise advised by the dealer or
                  broker-dealer, the Underwriter shall assume that each order submitted by the dealer
                  or broker-dealer is a sale to the public.

                 (ii)   any selling group agreement relating to the initial sale of the Series 2025
         Bonds to the public, together with the related pricing wires, contains or will contain
         language obligating each dealer that is a party to a third-party distribution agreement to be
         employed in connection with the initial sale of the Series 2025 Bonds to the public to
         require each broker-dealer that is a party to such third-party distribution agreement to (A)
         report the prices at which it sells to the public the unsold Series 2025 Bonds of each
         maturity allocated to it, whether or not the Closing Date has occurred, until either all Series
         2025 Bonds of that maturity allocated to it have been sold or it is notified by the
         Underwriter or the dealer that the 10% test has been satisfied as to the Series 2025 Bonds
         of that maturity, provided that, the reporting obligation after the Closing Date may be at
         reasonable periodic intervals or otherwise upon request of the Underwriter or the dealer,
         and (B) comply with the hold-the-offering-price rule, if applicable, if and for so long as
         directed by the Underwriter or the dealer and as set forth in the related pricing wires.

        (e)      The Issuer acknowledges that, in making the representations set forth in this
section, the Underwriter will rely on (i) in the event a selling group has been created in connection
with the initial sale of the Series 2025 Bonds to the public, the agreement of each dealer who is a
member of the selling group to comply with the requirements for establishing issue price of the
Series 2025 Bonds, including, but not limited to, its agreement to comply with the hold-the-
offering-price rule, if applicable to the Series 2025 Bonds, as set forth in a selling group agreement
and the related pricing wires, and (ii) in the event that a third-party distribution agreement was
employed in connection with the initial sale of the Series 2025 Bonds to the public, the agreement
of each broker-dealer that is a party to such agreement to comply with the requirements for
establishing issue price of the Series 2025 Bonds, including, but not limited to, its agreement to
comply with the hold-the-offering-price rule, if applicable to the Series 2025 Bonds, as set forth
in the third-party distribution agreement and the related pricing wires. The Issuer further


4898-4664-8929, v. 3                                  4
acknowledges that the Underwriter shall not be liable for the failure of any dealer who is a member
of a selling group, or of any broker-dealer that is a party to a third-party distribution agreement, to
comply with its corresponding agreement to comply with the requirements for establishing issue
price of the Series 2025 Bonds, including, but not limited to, its agreement to comply with the
hold-the-offering-price rule, if applicable to the Series 2025 Bonds.

         (f)     The Underwriter acknowledges that sales of any Series 2025 Bonds to any person
that is a related party to an underwriter participating in the initial sale of the Series 2025 Bonds to
the public (each such term being used as defined below) shall not constitute sales to the public for
purposes of this section. Further, for purposes of this section:

                    (i)    “public” means any person other than an underwriter or a related party,

                 (ii)     “underwriter” means (A) any person that agrees pursuant to a written
         contract with the Issuer (or with the lead underwriter to form an underwriting syndicate) to
         participate in the initial sale of the Series 2025 Bonds to the public and (B) any person that
         agrees pursuant to a written contract directly or indirectly with a person described in clause
         (A) to participate in the initial sale of the Series 2025 Bonds to the public (including a
         member of a selling group or a party to a third-party distribution agreement participating
         in the initial sale of the Series 2025 Bonds to the public),

                 (iii) a purchaser of any of the Series 2025 Bonds is a “related party” to an
         underwriter if the underwriter and the purchaser are subject, directly or indirectly, to (A)
         more than 50% common ownership of the voting power or the total value of their stock, if
         both entities are corporations (including direct ownership by one corporation of another),
         (B) more than 50% common ownership of their capital interests or profits interests, if both
         entities are partnerships (including direct ownership by one partnership of another), or (C)
         more than 50% common ownership of the value of the outstanding stock of the corporation
         or the capital interests or profit interests of the partnership, as applicable, if one entity is a
         corporation and the other entity is a partnership (including direct ownership of the
         applicable stock or interests by one entity of the other), and

                    (iv)   “sale date” means the date of execution of this Purchase Contract by all
         parties.

        Section 1.3. (a) By acceptance and approval of this Purchase Contract, the Issuer and
the City hereby authorize the use of copies of the Official Statement. The Issuer and the City
hereby agree to provide to the Underwriter within seven (7) business days of the date hereof an
electronic copy of the Official Statement in form sufficient to enable the Underwriter to comply
with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of Rule 15c2-12 under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (“Rule 15c2-12”), and with the requirements of Rule G-32 of the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board. The City has heretofore “deemed final” the Preliminary Official
Statement for purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of Rule 15c2-12 and the Issuer and the City
acknowledge and ratify the use by the Underwriter prior to the date hereof of the Preliminary
Official Statement in connection with the public offering of the Series 2025 Bonds.




4898-4664-8929, v. 3                                 5
                 (b)     In order to assist the Underwriter in complying with paragraph (b)(5) of
         Rule 15c2-12, the City will undertake, pursuant to a Continuing Disclosure Undertaking
         (the “Continuing Disclosure Undertaking”), to be dated as of the Closing Date to provide
         annual reports and notices of certain events. A form of the Continuing Disclosure
         Undertaking is set forth as APPENDIX D to the Preliminary Official Statement and will
         also be set forth as APPENDIX D to the Official Statement.

        Section 1.4. At approximately 9:00 a.m., Utah time, on _______, 2025, or on such later
date as shall be agreed upon in writing by the Issuer, the City, and the Underwriter, the Issuer and
the City will cause the Series 2025 Bonds to be delivered to or for the account of the Underwriter
in definitive form, duly executed and authenticated, at such place designated by the Underwriter
and will deliver to the Underwriter the other documents herein mentioned at the offices of Gilmore
& Bell, P.C., 15 West South Temple, Suite 1400, Salt Lake City, Utah, or such other location as
may be mutually agreed upon by the Issuer, the City, and the Underwriter. The closing date of
________, 2025, is herein referred to as the “Closing Date.” The Underwriter will accept such
delivery and pay the purchase price of the Series 2025 Bonds as set forth in paragraph 1.1(a) hereof
by wire transfer, payable in federal funds or other immediately available funds to the order of the
Trustee (such delivery and payment are herein called the “Closing”). The Series 2025 Bonds shall
be initially issued in the form of one fully registered Bond for each maturity of the Series 2025
Bonds, shall be registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for The Depository Trust
Company (“DTC”), and shall be made available to DTC or its agent for the account of the
Underwriter in New York, New York (or such other place designated by the Underwriter).

                                           ARTICLE II

                          REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND
                                AGREEMENTS OF ISSUER

      By its acceptance hereof, the Issuer represents and warrants to and covenants with the
Underwriter that:

        Section 2.1. The Issuer shall provide such information, access to its properties and
appropriate records and other cooperation, as may be reasonably requested until 25 days after the
“end of the underwriting period” (as defined in Rule 15c2-12) (which underwriting period the
Issuer may assume to have ended on the Closing Date unless notified to the contrary by the
Underwriter) as, in the opinion of the Underwriter, may be required in connection with the offering
of the Series 2025 Bonds.

        Section 2.2. The Issuer is a nonprofit corporation created by the Municipal Council of
the City pursuant to the Building Authority Act and the Utah Revised Nonprofit Corporation Act,
Title 16, Chapter 6a, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended (the “Nonprofit Corporation Act”).
The Issuer has full power and authority (a) to adopt the Resolution; (b) to execute, deliver and
perform its obligations under each of the Transaction Documents to which it is a party; (c) to
execute, issue, sell and deliver the Series 2025 Bonds to the Underwriter for the purposes
contemplated by the Preliminary Official Statement and as provided herein; (d) to own the Projects
and to lease the Projects to the City pursuant to the Lease; and (e) to carry out and to consummate
the transactions on its part contained in the Transaction Documents and the Official Statement, to


4898-4664-8929, v. 3                             6
pledge and assign to the Trustee the Trust Estate (as defined in the Indenture), and to create a
security interest in the Projects to secure the payment of the Series 2025 Bonds and all Additional
Bonds and Refunding Bonds pursuant to the Indenture.

        Section 2.3. The Board of the Issuer has duly adopted the Resolution, has duly
authorized and approved the execution and distribution of the Preliminary Official Statement and
the Official Statement and has duly authorized and approved the execution and delivery of, and
the performance by the Issuer of the obligations on its part contained in the Transaction Documents
and the Purchase Contract.

       Section 2.4. The adoption of the Resolution, the execution and delivery of the
Transaction Documents, the compliance by the Issuer with the provisions of any or all of the
foregoing documents, and the application of the proceeds of the Series 2025 Bonds for the purposes
described in the Official Statement do not and will not conflict with or result in the material breach
of any of the terms, conditions or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any existing law,
court or administrative regulation, decree or order, agreement, indenture, mortgage, lease or
instrument to which the Issuer is a party or by which the Issuer or any of its property is or may be
bound.

       Section 2.5. The Issuer has duly authorized all necessary action to be taken by it for the
adoption of the Resolution; the issuance and sale of the Series 2025 Bonds by the Issuer upon the
terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Official Statement and the Transaction Documents;
and the execution, delivery and receipt of the Transaction Documents, and any and all such
agreements, certificates and documents as may be required to be executed, delivered and received
by the Issuer in order to carry out, effectuate and consummate the transactions contemplated
hereby and by the Official Statement, including but not limited to such certifications as may be
necessary to establish and preserve the excludability from gross income for federal income tax
purposes of interest on the Series 2025 Bonds.

        Section 2.6. There is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation, at law or in
equity, before or by any court, public board or body, pending or threatened against the Issuer or
others (a) affecting the existence of the Issuer or the titles of its officers to their respective offices;
(b) seeking to prohibit, restrain or enjoin the sale, issuance or delivery of the Series 2025 Bonds
or the revenues or assets of the Issuer mortgaged, appropriated, encumbered or pledged pursuant
to the Indenture; (c) in any way contesting or affecting the validity or enforceability of the Series
2025 Bonds or any of the Transaction Documents or the transactions contemplated thereby; (d)
contesting in any way the completeness or accuracy of the Preliminary Official Statement or the
Official Statement; or (e) contesting the powers of the Issuer or any authority for the issuance of
the Series 2025 Bonds or the execution and delivery of any of the Transaction Documents to which
the Issuer is a party.

        Section 2.7. When delivered to and paid by the Underwriter at the Closing in accordance
with the provisions of this Purchase Contract, the Series 2025 Bonds will have been duly
authorized, executed, issued and delivered and will constitute valid and binding special limited
obligations of the Issuer in conformity with, and entitled to the benefit and security of the
Indenture.



4898-4664-8929, v. 3                                7
        Section 2.8. The Issuer is not in breach of or in default under any material existing law,
court or administrative regulation, decree or order, ordinance, resolution, agreement, indenture,
mortgage, lease, sublease or other instrument to which the Issuer is a party or by which the Issuer
or its property is bound; and the execution and delivery of the Series 2025 Bonds and the
Transaction Documents to which the Issuer is a party, and this Purchase Contract, and compliance
with the provisions thereof, will not conflict with or constitute a material breach or a default under
any law, administrative regulation, judgment, decree, loan agreement, mortgage, indenture, deed
of trust, note, resolution, agreement or other instrument to which the Issuer or its property is or
may be bound.

        Section 2.9. No event has occurred or is continuing which, with the passage of time or
the giving of notice, or both, would constitute a default or an event of default under the Transaction
Documents, or which could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Issuer,
receipt by the Issuer of the Base Rentals or the transactions contemplated by the Transaction
Documents, or have a material adverse effect on the validity or enforceability in accordance with
their respective terms of the Transaction Documents or this Purchase Contract or in any way
adversely affect the existence or any powers of the Issuer or the titles of its officers to their
respective positions or the excludability from gross income for federal income tax purposes of
interest on the Series 2025 Bonds.

        Section 2.10. The information contained in the Preliminary Official Statement was as of
its date, and is, as of the date hereof, true and correct in all material respects. The Preliminary
Official Statement does not contain, and the Official Statement, as of its date and as of the Closing
Date, will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact, and the Preliminary Official
Statement does not omit and the Official Statement, as of its date and as of the Closing Date, will
not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements
made therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
provided, however, that this representation and warranty shall not be deemed to cover or apply to
(x) information provided to the Issuer in writing by the Underwriter and included on the inside
front cover page of the Preliminary Official Statement or the Official Statement regarding the
principal amount, interest rates, maturities and initial public offering prices of the Series 2025
Bonds or (y) statements in the Preliminary Official Statement or the Official Statement under the
captions “THE SERIES 2025 BONDS—Book-Entry Only System,” “UNDERWRITING,”
APPENDIX B, APPENDIX C, APPENDIX E or APPENDIX F.

       Section 2.11. The Issuer has full power and authority to receive and utilize the Base
Rentals in accordance with the Indenture.

        Section 2.12. The Issuer will not take or omit to take any action which will in any way
cause the proceeds from the sale of the Series 2025 Bonds to be applied or result in such proceeds
being applied in a manner inconsistent with the Transaction Documents.

        Section 2.13. The Issuer hereby authorizes the use of the Official Statement, including all
amendments and supplements thereto, by the Underwriter in connection with the public offering
and sale of the Series 2025 Bonds and consents to the use by the Underwriter prior to the date
hereof of the Preliminary Official Statement in connection with the public offering and sale of the
Series 2025 Bonds.


4898-4664-8929, v. 3                              8
        Section 2.14. The Issuer agrees to reasonably cooperate with the Underwriter in any
endeavor to qualify the Series 2025 Bonds for offering and sale under the securities or “Blue Sky”
laws of such jurisdictions of the United States as the Underwriter may request; provided, however,
that the Issuer shall not be required with respect to the offer or sale of the Series 2025 Bonds to
file written consent to suit or to file written consent to service of process in any jurisdiction. The
Issuer hereby consents to the use of the Official Statement by the Underwriter in obtaining such
qualification.

         Section 2.15. If, between the date of this Purchase Contract and 25 days following the
“end of the underwriting period” (which the Issuer can assume is the Closing Date unless otherwise
notified in writing by the Underwriter), any event shall occur which might or would cause the
Official Statement to contain any untrue statement of a material fact or to omit to state any material
fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the
circumstance under which they were made, not misleading, the Issuer shall notify the Underwriter
and if, in the opinion of the Underwriter, such event requires the preparation and publication of a
supplement or amendment to the Official Statement, the Issuer will supplement or amend the
Official Statement in a form and in a manner approved by the Underwriter. If the Official
Statement is amended or supplemented subsequent to the date hereof and prior to the Closing, the
Underwriter may terminate this Purchase Contract by notification to the Issuer and the City at any
time prior to the Closing if, in the reasonable judgment of the Underwriter, such amendment or
supplement has or will have a material adverse effect on the marketability of the Series 2025
Bonds.

       Section 2.16. The Issuer has duly adopted the Resolution and approved the execution of
the Transaction Documents to which it is a party and, as of the Closing Date, each will be in full
force and effect and, as of the Closing Date, neither the Resolution nor any of the Transaction
Documents to which it is a party will have been amended, supplemented, rescinded, repealed or
otherwise modified except with the approval of the Underwriter.

         Section 2.17. When executed by the respective parties thereto, this Purchase Contract and
the Transaction Documents will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Issuer
enforceable in accordance with their respective terms except that the rights and obligations under
the Transaction Documents, and this Purchase Contract are subject to bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws affecting creditors’
rights, to the application of equitable principles if equitable remedies are sought, to the exercise of
judicial discretion in appropriate cases and to limitations on legal remedies against public agencies
in the State of Utah.

       Section 2.18. The Issuer has complied, and will at the Closing for the Series 2025 Bonds
be in compliance in all respects, with the obligations on its part contained in the Transaction
Documents and this Purchase Contract and any and all other agreements relating thereto.

       Section 2.19. Each representation, warranty or agreement stated in any certificate signed
by any officer of the Issuer and delivered to the Underwriter at or before the Closing for the Series
2025 Bonds shall constitute a representation, warranty, or agreement by the Issuer upon which the
Underwriter shall be entitled to rely.



4898-4664-8929, v. 3                              9
        Section 2.20. The Issuer has not otherwise pledged or assigned or granted a security
interest in the Trust Estate to the payment of any obligations of the Issuer.

                                           ARTICLE III

                          REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND
                               AGREEMENTS OF THE CITY

        In order to induce the Underwriter to enter into this Purchase Contract, with full realization
and appreciation of the fact that the investment value of the Series 2025 Bonds and the ability of
the Issuer to sell and the Underwriter to resell the Series 2025 Bonds are dependent upon the credit
standing of the City and in consideration of the foregoing and execution and delivery of this
Purchase Contract, the City represents and warrants to and covenants with the Underwriter as
follows:

        Section 3.1. The City is and will be at the Closing Date a validly organized and existing
municipal corporation under the laws of the State of Utah with full power and authority to execute,
deliver and perform its obligations under the Transaction Documents to which it is a party,
including the execution, delivery and/or approval of all documents and agreements referred to
herein or therein;

        Section 3.2. The execution and delivery of each of the Transaction Documents to which
the City is a party, the approval by the City of this Purchase Contract and adoption of the Approval
Resolution, and compliance by the City with the provisions of any or all of the foregoing
documents and the application of the proceeds of the Series 2025 Bonds for the purposes described
in the Preliminary Official Statement do not and will not conflict with or result in the breach of
any of the terms, conditions or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any existing law, court
or administrative regulation, decree or order, agreement, indenture, mortgage, lease or instrument
to which the City is a party or by which the City or any of its property is or may be bound;

        Section 3.3. The City has duly authorized all necessary action to be taken by it for: (a)
the issuance and sale of the Series 2025 Bonds by the Issuer upon the terms and conditions set
forth herein, in the Official Statement and in the Indenture and the approval of this Purchase
Contract; and (b) the execution, delivery and receipt of each of the Transaction Documents to
which the City is a party, and any and all such agreements, certificates and documents as may be
required to be executed, delivered and received by the City in order to carry out, effectuate and
consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and by the Official Statement;

       Section 3.4. When executed by the respective parties thereto, the Transaction
Documents to which the City is a party will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the
City enforceable in accordance with their respective terms;

        Section 3.5. The City has complied, and will at the Closing be in compliance in all
respects, with the obligations on its part contained in the Transaction Documents to which the City
is a party and any and all other agreements relating thereto;

        Section 3.6. There is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation, at law or in
equity, before or by any court, public board or body, pending or threatened against the City or


4898-4664-8929, v. 3                             10
others (a) affecting the existence of the City or the titles of its officers to their respective offices,
(b) seeking to prohibit, restrain or enjoin the sale, issuance or delivery of the Series 2025 Bonds
or the revenues or assets of the City appropriated or pledged or to be appropriated or pledged to
pay the Base Rentals payable under the Lease or the pledge or appropriation thereof, (c) the validity
or enforceability of the Series 2025 Bonds or any of the Transaction Documents, (d) contesting in
any way the completeness or accuracy of the Preliminary Official Statement or the Official
Statement or (e) contesting the powers of the City or any authority for the issuance of the Series
2025 Bonds, or the execution and delivery of any of the Transaction Documents or the transactions
contemplated thereby;

        Section 3.7. The City is not in breach of or default under any applicable law or
administrative regulation of the State of Utah or the United States or any applicable judgment or
decree or any loan agreement, note, resolution, agreement, indenture, mortgage, lease, sublease or
other instrument to which the City is a party or to which it or any of its property is otherwise
subject; and the execution and delivery of the Series 2025 Bonds and the Transaction Documents
to which the City is a party, and compliance with the provisions of each thereof, will not conflict
with or constitute a breach of or default under any law, administrative regulation, judgment, decree,
loan agreement, note, resolution, agreement or other instrument to which the City is a party or to
which it or any of its property is otherwise subject;

        Section 3.8. No event has occurred or is continuing which, with the passage of time or
the giving of notice, or both, would constitute a default or an event of default under any of the
Transaction Documents in any manner or to any extent which could have a material adverse effect
on the financial condition of the City, the operation of the City, the due performance by the City
of its obligations in connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Series 2025 Bonds, or
the ability of the City to carry out the transactions contemplated by this Purchase Contract and the
Preliminary Official Statement, or have an adverse effect on the validity or enforceability, in
accordance with their respective terms, of the Series 2025 Bonds or any of the Transaction
Documents or in any way adversely affect the existence or powers of the City;

        Section 3.9. The City has never failed to pay principal and interest when due on any of
its bonded indebtedness or other obligations nor has the City ever failed to appropriate sufficient
amounts to timely pay any of its lease obligations;

        Section 3.10. The City’s audited financial statements as of and for the year ended June 30,
2024, a copy of which has heretofore been delivered to the Underwriter, present fairly the financial
position of the City at June 30, 2024 and the results of its operations and changes in financial
position for the year then ended; any other statements and data submitted in writing by the City to
the Underwriter in connection with the Lease and this Purchase Contract are true and correct in all
material respects as of their respective dates; except as described in the Official Statement, since
June 30, 2024 there has been no material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise,
of the City from that set forth in the audited financial statements as of and for the year ended that
date, and the City has not since June 30, 2024 incurred any material liabilities, directly or
indirectly, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of its operations;

        Section 3.11. The information contained in the Preliminary Official Statement relating to
the City, the application of the proceeds of sale of the Series 2025 Bonds, and the participation by


4898-4664-8929, v. 3                               11
the City in the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents and the Preliminary
Official Statement was, as of its date, and is, as of the hereof, true and correct in all material
respects. The Preliminary Official Statement does not contain, and the Official Statement, as of its
date and as of the Closing Date, will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact, and the
Preliminary Official Statement does not omit and the Official Statement, as of its date and as of
the Closing Date, will not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to
make the statements made therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made,
not misleading; provided, however, that this representation and warranty shall not be deemed to
cover or apply to (x) information provided in writing by the Underwriter and included on the inside
front cover page of the Official Statement regarding the principal amount, interest rates, maturities
and initial public offering prices of the Series 2025 Bonds or (y) statements in or omissions in the
Preliminary Official Statement or the Official Statement under the captions “THE SERIES 2025
BONDS—Book-Entry Only System,” “UNDERWRITING,” APPENDIX B, APPENDIX C,
APPENDIX E, or APPENDIX F.

       Section 3.12. The City will not take or omit to take any action that will in any way cause
the proceeds from the sale of the Series 2025 Bonds to be applied or result in such proceeds being
applied in a manner inconsistent with the Lease and the Indenture;

        Section 3.13. The City hereby authorizes the use of the Official Statement, including all
amendments and supplements thereto, by the Underwriter in connection with the public offering
and sale of the Series 2025 Bonds and consents to the use by the Underwriter prior to the date
hereof of the Preliminary Official Statement in connection with the public offering and sale of the
Series 2025 Bonds;

        Section 3.14. The City agrees reasonably to cooperate with the Underwriter in any
endeavor to qualify the Series 2025 Bonds for offering and sale under the securities or “blue sky”
laws of such jurisdictions of the United States as the Underwriter may request; provided, however,
that the City shall not be required with respect to the offer or sale of the Series 2025 Bonds to file
written consent to suit or to file written consent to service of process in any jurisdiction. The City
hereby consents to the use of the Official Statement and the Transaction Documents by the
Underwriter in obtaining such qualification;

        Section 3.15. If at any time from the date of this Purchase Contract through twenty five
(25) days following the “end of the underwriting period” (as defined in Rule 15c2-12) any event
shall occur that might or would cause the Official Statement to contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or to omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make
the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not
misleading, the City shall notify the Underwriter and if, in the opinion of the Underwriter, such
event requires the preparation and publication of a supplement or amendment to the Official
Statement, the City will request that the Issuer supplement or amend the Official Statement in a
form and in a manner approved by the Underwriter. If the Official Statement is so supplemented
or amended prior to the Closing, such approval by the Underwriter of a supplement or amendment
to the Official Statement shall not preclude the Underwriter from thereafter terminating this
Purchase Contract, and if the Official Statement is amended or supplemented subsequent to the
date hereof and prior to the Closing, the Underwriter may terminate this Purchase Contract by
notification to the City and the Issuer at any time prior to the Closing if, in the reasonable judgment


4898-4664-8929, v. 3                              12
of the Underwriter, such amendment or supplement has or will have a material adverse effect on
the marketability of the Series 2025 Bonds;

        Section 3.16. Each representation, warranty or agreement stated in any certificate signed
by any officer of the City and delivered to the Underwriter or the Trustee at or before the Closing
shall constitute a representation, warranty or agreement by the City upon which the Underwriter
and the Trustee shall be entitled to rely.

        Section 3.17. Any instances of non-compliance by the City within the last five years with
each undertaking it has entered into pursuant to Rule 15c2-12, have been properly disclosed by the
City in the Preliminary Official Statement and the Official Statement.

                                              ARTICLE IV

                                  UNDERWRITER’S CONDITIONS

        Section 4.1. The Underwriter has entered into this Purchase Contract in reliance upon
the performance by the Issuer of its obligations hereunder. The Underwriter’s obligations under
this Purchase Contract are and shall be subject to the following further conditions:

                (a)      At the time of Closing for the Series 2025 Bonds, (1) the Transaction
         Documents shall be in full force and effect and shall not have been revoked, rescinded,
         repealed, amended, modified or supplemented, except as therein permitted or as may have
         been agreed to in writing by the Underwriter, and (2) the Issuer shall have duly adopted
         and there shall be in full force and effect such resolutions and ordinances as, in the opinion
         of Gilmore & Bell, P.C., bond counsel to the Issuer (“Bond Counsel”), shall be necessary
         in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.

                 (b)     The Underwriter may terminate its obligations hereunder by written notice
         to the Issuer if, at any time subsequent to the date hereof and on or prior to the Closing
         Date for the Series 2025 Bonds:

                          (i)    (A) Legislation shall have been enacted by the Congress, introduced
                  in the Congress, or recommended to the Congress for passage by the President of
                  the United States or the United States Department of the Treasury or the Internal
                  Revenue Service or any member of the United States Congress, or favorably
                  reported for passage to either House of Congress by any Committee of such House
                  to which such legislation has been referred for consideration, or (B) a decision shall
                  have been rendered by a court established under Article III of the Constitution of
                  the United States, or the United States Tax Court, or (C) an order, ruling, regulation,
                  or communication (including a press release) shall have been issued by the Treasury
                  Department of the United States or the Internal Revenue Service or (D) any action
                  shall be taken or statement made by or on behalf of the President of the United
                  States or the Department of Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service or any
                  member of the United States Congress which indicates or implies that legislation
                  will be introduced in the current or next scheduled session of the United States
                  Congress, with the purpose or effect, directly or indirectly, of requiring the



4898-4664-8929, v. 3                                13
                  inclusion in gross income for federal income tax purposes of interest to be received
                  by any owners of the Series 2025 Bonds or financial instruments similar in nature
                  to the Series 2025 Bonds; or

                          (ii)    Legislation shall be enacted or any action shall be taken by the
                  Securities and Exchange Commission which, in the opinion of the Underwriter, has
                  the effect of requiring the offer or sale of the Series 2025 Bonds or financial
                  instruments similar in nature to the Series 2025 Bonds to be registered under the
                  Securities Act or any other “security,” as defined in the Securities Act, issued in
                  connection with or as part of the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds to be so
                  registered or the Indenture to be qualified as an indenture under the Trust Indenture
                  Act of 1939, as amended; or any event shall have occurred or shall exist which, in
                  the reasonable judgment of the Underwriter, makes or has made untrue or incorrect
                  in any respect any statement or information contained in the Official Statement or
                  is not or was not reflected in the Official Statement but should be or should have
                  been reflected therein in order to make the statements or information contained
                  therein not misleading in any material respect; or

                          (iii) In the reasonable judgment of the Underwriter, it is impractical or
                  inadvisable for the Underwriter to market or sell or enforce agreements to sell
                  Series 2025 Bonds because (A) trading in securities generally shall have been
                  suspended on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., or a general banking moratorium
                  shall have been established by federal or the State of Utah authorities or a material
                  disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services
                  shall have occurred, or (B) the State of Utah shall have taken any action, whether
                  administrative, legislative, judicial or otherwise, which would have a material
                  adverse effect on the marketing or sale of the Series 2025 Bonds, including any
                  action relating to (i) the tax status of the Series 2025 Bonds under federal or Utah
                  law as set forth in the opinion of Bond Counsel attached as APPENDIX E to the
                  Official Statement, or (ii) a limitation on the ability of the Issuer to receive the Base
                  Rentals, or (C) the United States shall have become engaged in hostilities which
                  have resulted in a declaration of war or a national emergency or there shall have
                  occurred any other outbreak or escalation of hostilities or a national or international
                  calamity or crisis, financial or otherwise; or (D) a war involving the United States
                  of America shall have been declared or any other conflict involving the armed
                  forces of the United States of America has escalated, in either case to such a
                  magnitude as to materially adversely affect the Underwriter’s ability to market the
                  Series 2025 Bonds; (E) there shall have occurred the declaration of a general
                  banking moratorium by any authority of the United States or the States of New
                  York or Utah or if any material disruption in commercial banking or securities
                  settlement or clearance services shall have occurred; or

                          (iv)   Any financial rating assigned to the Series 2025 Bonds or any other
                  obligations of the Issuer or the Insurer by S&P Global Ratings (“S&P”), Fitch
                  Ratings (“Fitch”), or Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”), as the case may be,
                  shall have been downgraded, withdrawn, or any other action taken, and such action,



4898-4664-8929, v. 3                                 14
                  in the opinion of the Underwriter, has a material adverse effect on the marketability
                  of the Series 2025 Bonds; or

                           (v)    Any litigation shall be instituted, pending or threatened (A) to
                  restrain or enjoin the issuance, sale or delivery of the Series 2025 Bonds, (B) to
                  restrain or enjoin, or otherwise seek recovery of damages with respect to the receipt
                  by the Issuer of the Base Rentals, (C) in any way contesting or affecting any
                  authority for or the validity of the Series 2025 Bonds, any of the proceedings of the
                  Issuer, the City, or the Trustee taken with respect to the issuance or sale thereof, the
                  pledge, appropriation or application of any moneys or securities provided for the
                  payment of the Series 2025 Bonds, or (D) in any way contesting or affecting the
                  existence or powers of the Issuer or the Trustee or the titles of their officers to their
                  respective offices; or

                          (vi)    Any other event or circumstances shall have occurred which shall
                  be beyond the reasonable control of the Underwriter and, in the opinion of the
                  Underwriter, might in any way have a material adverse effect on the marketability
                  of the Series 2025 Bonds.

                (c)      At or prior to the Closing for the Series 2025 Bonds, the Underwriter shall
         receive the following:

                          (i)    The approving opinion of Gilmore & Bell, P.C., Bond Counsel,
                  dated the Closing Date, in substantially the form attached as APPENDIX E to the
                  Official Statement;

                          (ii)  The opinion of Gilmore & Bell, P.C., as disclosure counsel, dated
                  the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriter, in standard form for similar
                  transactions;

                           (iii) Opinions of the office of the City Attorney of the City, as counsel
                  for the Issuer and the City, in standard form for similar transactions and satisfactory
                  to Bond Counsel and the Underwriter;

                           (iv)   The Issuer’s certificate, dated the Closing Date, signed by the
                  President of the Issuer and the Secretary-Treasurer of the Issuer and in form and
                  substance satisfactory to the Underwriter and Bond Counsel, to the effect that (A)
                  the representations of the Issuer herein are true and correct in all material respects
                  as of the Closing Date as if made on the Closing Date; (B) except as disclosed in
                  the Official Statement, no litigation is pending or, to the best of their knowledge,
                  threatened against the Issuer (i) to restrain or enjoin the issuance or delivery of any
                  of the Series 2025 Bonds or the collection of moneys pledged under the Indenture,
                  (ii) in any way contesting or affecting the authority for the issuance of the Series
                  2025 Bonds or the adoption of the Resolution or the execution and delivery of the
                  Transaction Documents to which the Issuer is a party, the validity or enforceability
                  of the Series 2025 Bonds, or the excludability from gross income for federal income
                  tax purposes of interest on the Series 2025 Bonds, (iii) in any way contesting the



4898-4664-8929, v. 3                                 15
                  organization, existence or powers of the Issuer or the titles of its officers to their
                  respective offices, or (iv) contesting or attempting to restrain or enjoining the
                  application of the proceeds thereof or the payment, collection or application of the
                  moneys pledged under the Indenture or the pledge of the moneys pledged under the
                  Indenture, or of other moneys, rights and interests pledged pursuant to the Indenture
                  or the adoption of the Resolution; (C) the descriptions and information contained
                  in the Official Statement relating to the Issuer, its organization and financial and
                  other affairs, the Projects and the application of the proceeds of sale of the Series
                  2025 Bonds are correct in all material respects, as of the date of the Official
                  Statement and as of said Closing Date; (D) such descriptions and information, as
                  of the date of the Official Statement did not, and as of said Closing Date do not,
                  contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
                  required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein, in
                  the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; (E) no
                  event affecting the Issuer has occurred since the date of the Official Statement that
                  should be disclosed in the Official Statement for the purpose for which it is to be
                  used or that is necessary to be disclosed therein in order to make the statements and
                  information therein not misleading in any material respect; (F) the Transaction
                  Documents to which the Issuer is a party have been duly authorized, executed and
                  delivered by the Issuer and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by
                  the other parties thereto, the Transaction Documents to which the Issuer is a party
                  constitute legal, valid and binding agreements of the Issuer enforceable in
                  accordance with their respective terms except as enforcement may be limited by
                  bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting
                  creditors’ rights and by the availability of equitable remedies; (G) the Resolution
                  authorizing the execution and delivery of the Transaction Documents to which the
                  Issuer is a party has been duly adopted and has not been modified, amended or
                  repealed; and (H) the execution and delivery of the Transaction Documents to
                  which the Issuer is a party, and this Purchase Contract and compliance with the
                  provisions thereof, under the circumstances contemplated thereby, do not and will
                  not in any material respect conflict with or constitute on the part of the Issuer a
                  breach of or default under any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, agreement or
                  other instrument to which the Issuer is a party or any law, public administrative rule
                  or regulation, court order or consent decree to which the Issuer is subject;

                           (v)     The City’s certificate, dated the Closing Date, signed by the Mayor
                  of the City and the City Recorder of the City and in form and substance satisfactory
                  to the Underwriter and Bond Counsel, to the effect that (A) the representations of
                  the City herein are true and correct in all material respects as of the Closing Date
                  as if made on the Closing Date; (B) except as disclosed in the Official Statement,
                  no litigation is pending or, to the best of their knowledge, threatened against the
                  City (i) to restrain or enjoin the issuance or delivery of any of the Series 2025 Bonds
                  or the collection of moneys pledged under the Indenture, (ii) in any way contesting
                  or affecting the authority for the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds or the adoption
                  of the Approval Resolution or the execution and delivery of the Transaction
                  Documents to which the City is a party, the validity or enforceability of the Series
                  2025 Bonds, or the excludability from gross income for federal income tax purposes


4898-4664-8929, v. 3                                16
                  of interest on the Series 2025 Bonds, (iii) questioning or challenging any power of
                  the City, including its ability to levy taxes, or (iv) in any way contesting the
                  organization, existence or powers of the City or the titles of its officers to their
                  respective offices, or (v) contesting or attempting to restrain or enjoining the
                  application of the proceeds thereof or the payment, collection or application of the
                  moneys pledged under the Indenture or the pledge of the moneys pledged under the
                  Indenture, or of other moneys, rights and interests pledged pursuant to the Indenture
                  or the adoption of the Approval Resolution; (C) the descriptions and information
                  contained in the Official Statement relating to the City, its organization and
                  financial and other affairs, the Projects, and the application of the proceeds of sale
                  of the Series 2025 Bonds are correct in all material respects, as of the date of the
                  Official Statement and as of said Closing Date; (D) such descriptions and
                  information, as of the date of the Official Statement did not, and as of said Closing
                  Date do not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
                  material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made
                  therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not
                  misleading; (E) no event affecting the City has occurred since the date of the
                  Official Statement that should be disclosed in the Official Statement for the purpose
                  for which it is to be used or that is necessary to be disclosed therein in order to make
                  the statements and information therein not misleading in any material respect; (F)
                  the Transaction Documents to which the City is a party have been duly authorized,
                  executed and delivered by the City and, assuming due authorization, execution and
                  delivery by the other parties thereto, the Transaction Documents to which the City
                  is a party constitute legal, valid and binding agreements of the City enforceable in
                  accordance with their respective terms except as enforcement may be limited by
                  bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting
                  creditors’ rights and by the availability of equitable remedies; (G) the Approval
                  Resolution authorizing the execution and delivery of the Transaction Documents to
                  which the City is a party has been duly adopted and has not been modified, amended
                  or repealed; and (H) the execution and delivery of the Transaction Documents to
                  which the City is a party, and this Purchase Contract and compliance with the
                  provisions thereof, under the circumstances contemplated thereby, do not and will
                  not in any material respect conflict with or constitute on the part of the City a breach
                  of or default under any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, agreement or other
                  instrument to which the City is a party or any law, public administrative rule or
                  regulation, court order or consent decree to which the City is subject;

                         (vi)    A copy of each of the Transaction Documents, duly executed by
                  each of the parties thereto;

                          (vii) A copy of the Tax Certificate of the Issuer and the City, relating to
                  matters affecting the excludability from gross income for federal income tax
                  purposes of interest on the Series 2025 Bonds, including the use of proceeds of sale
                  of the Series 2025 Bonds and matters relating to arbitrage rebate pursuant to Section
                  148 of the Code and the applicable regulations thereunder, in form and substance
                  satisfactory to Bond Counsel;



4898-4664-8929, v. 3                                17
                         (viii) Evidence that the federal tax information form 8038-G has been
                  prepared for filing;

                          (ix)    A copy of each of the Preliminary Official Statement and copies of
                  the Official Statement;

                         (x)     Evidence satisfactory to the Underwriter that the Series 2025 Bonds
                  have received a rating of “Aa2” from Moody’s;

                         (xi)   All documents, certificates and opinions required by the Indenture;
                  and

                        (xii) Such additional legal opinions, certificates, instruments and other
                  documents as the Underwriter or Bond Counsel may reasonably request.

         All the opinions, letters, certificates, instruments and other documents mentioned above or
elsewhere in this Purchase Contract shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions hereof
if, but only if, they are in form and substance satisfactory to the Underwriter, and the Underwriter
shall have the right to waive any condition set forth in this Section.

                                             ARTICLE V

                                             EXPENSES

         All expenses and costs in connection with the authorization, issuance and sale of the Series
2025 Bonds to the Underwriter, including rating agency fees, the costs of printing of the Series
2025 Bonds, the costs of printing the Official Statement and the Preliminary Official Statement,
advertising costs, the initial fees of the Trustee in connection with the issuance of the Series 2025
Bonds, the fees and expenses of Bond and Disclosure Counsel, the fees and expenses of counsel
to the Issuer, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, as the municipal advisor to the Issuer, the
premiums relating to title policies for the Series 2025 Project, and travel and other expenses shall
be costs and expenses of the Issuer and shall be paid by the Issuer.

                                            ARTICLE VI

                                             GENERAL

        Section 6.1. Any notice or other communication to be given to the Underwriter under
this Purchase Contract may be given by delivering the same in writing to
________________________________,             [PURCHASER           ADDRESS],           Attention:
_____________. Any notice or other communication to be given to the Issuer under this Purchase
Contract may be given by delivering the same in writing to Local Building Authority of the City
of Holladay, Utah, 4580 S. 2300 E., Holladay, Utah 84117, Attention: Chair/President, with a copy
thereof to Issuer’s counsel, ______________, 4580 S. 2300 E., Holladay, Utah 84117. Any notice
or other communication to be given to the City under this Purchase Contract may be given by
delivering the same in writing to the City of Holladay, 4580 S. 2300 E., Holladay, Utah 84117,
Attention: Mayor, with a copy thereof to the City’s counsel, ______________, 4580 S. 2300 E.,
Holladay, Utah 84117.


4898-4664-8929, v. 3                              18
        Section 6.2. This Purchase Contract is made solely for the benefit of the Issuer and the
Underwriter (including its successors or assigns) and no other person shall acquire or have any
right hereunder or by virtue hereof. All the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements
contained herein shall remain operative and in full force and effect and shall survive delivery of
and payment of the Series 2025 Bonds hereunder and regardless of any investigation made by the
Underwriter or on its behalf.

         Section 6.3.   This Purchase Contract shall be governed by the laws of the State of Utah.

        Section 6.4. The Issuer and the City acknowledge and agree that (i) the purchase and
sale of the Series 2025 Bonds pursuant to this Purchase Contract is an arm’s-length commercial
transaction among the Issuer, the City and the Underwriter, (ii) in connection therewith and with
the discussions, undertakings and procedures leading up to the consummation of such transaction,
the Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not acting as the agent, advisor
or fiduciary of the Issuer or the City, (iii) the Underwriter has not assumed an advisory or fiduciary
responsibility in favor of the Issuer or the City with respect to the offering contemplated hereby or
the discussions, undertakings and procedures leading thereto (irrespective of whether the
Underwriter has provided other services or is currently providing other services to the Issuer or
the City on other matters) and the Underwriter has no obligation to the Issuer or the City with
respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this
Purchase Contract, (iv) the Underwriter is not acting as municipal advisor (as defined in Section
15B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), and (v) the Issuer and the City consulted
their own legal, financial and other advisors to the extent they deemed appropriate in connection
with the offering of the Series 2025 Bonds.

        Section 6.5. The Underwriter represents and warrants that it is not currently engaged in
a boycott of the State of Israel or an economic boycott of a boycotted company, as such terms are
defined in the immediately succeeding two sentences. As currently defined in Section 63G-27-
102(5) of the Utah Code, “economic boycott” means an action targeting a “boycotted company”
with the intention of penalizing or inflicting economic harm to such company. Furthermore, as
currently defined in Section 63G-27-102(3) of the Utah Code “boycotted company” means a
company that (1) engages in the exploration, production, utilization, transportation, sale, or
manufacture of fossil fuel-based energy, timber, mining, or agriculture, (2) engages in, facilitates,
or supports the manufacture, distribution, sale, or use of firearms, (3) does not meet or commit to
meet environmental standards, including standards for eliminating, reducing, offsetting, or
disclosing greenhouse gas-emissions, beyond applicable state and federal law requirements or (4)
does not facilitate or commit to facilitate access to abortion or sex characteristic surgical
procedures. The Underwriter covenants and agrees not to engage in a boycott of the State of Israel
or an economic boycott of a boycotted company for the duration of any contractual arrangement
with the City, including this Purchase Contract.

        Section 6.6. This Purchase Contract and all documents necessary or required to complete
the sale of the Bonds may be executed in multiple counterparts, all of which taken together will
constitute one and the same instrument. Pursuant to the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act,
Title 46, Chapter 4 Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, the Underwriter and the City hereby
agree and consent to the use of electronic signatures and electronic records in connection with the
Bond transaction; provided, however, that such consent and agreement only permits the use of, but


4898-4664-8929, v. 3                             19
does not require, electronic signatures or electronic records, including on documents delivered in
counterparts.

       Section 6.7. This Purchase Contract may be executed in several counterparts, each of
which shall be an original and all of which shall constitute but one and the same instrument.

        Section 6.1. This Purchase Contract contains the entire agreement between the parties
relating to the subject matter hereof, and all previous representations, endorsements, promises,
agreements or understandings, oral, written or inferred, between the parties relating to the subject
matter hereof are superseded hereby.




4898-4664-8929, v. 3                            20
       This Purchase Contract shall become effective upon the execution by the Underwriter and
the acceptance hereof by the Issuer and the City.

                                           Very truly yours,

                                           ________________________________


                                           By:

                                           Title:


                                           By:

                                           Title:


LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF
THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH



By:
                       Chair/President
                                                               (AUTHORITY SEAL)
ATTEST:


By:
                 Secretary-Treasurer



CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH


By:
                           Mayor
                                                                   (CITY SEAL)
ATTEST:


By:
                       City Recorder




4898-4664-8929, v. 3                         S-1
                                           EXHIBIT A

                                       $__________
                             LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF
                              THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH
                                LEASE REVENUE BONDS,
                                       SERIES 2025

  Maturity Date        Principal                                       Pricing
   (_______)           Amount        Interest Rate     Yield   Price    Rule




 c       Yield to optional call on __________.
*        General Rule Maturities.
***      Hold-the-Offering-Price maturities.




4898-4664-8929, v. 3                             A-1
                                              EXHIBIT B


                                        FORM OF
                             UNDERWRITER’S RECEIPT FOR BONDS
                               AND ISSUE PRICE CERTIFICATE

                                           $__________
                        Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah
                                 Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025

       The undersigned, on behalf of ________________________________ (the “Original
Purchaser”), as the Original Purchaser of the above-described bonds (the “Bonds”), being issued
on the date of this Certificate by the Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah (the
“Issuer”), certifies and represents as follows:

        1.       Receipt of the Bonds. The Original Purchaser hereby acknowledges receipt of the
Bonds pursuant to the Bond Purchase Contract (the “Purchase Contract”) by and between the
Original Purchaser, the Issuer, and the City of Holladay, Utah, dated __________, 2025 (the “Sale
Date”). The Bonds are issued as fully registered bonds, and are dated, mature on the dates, bear
interest at the rates per annum, and are numbered as set forth in the Indenture (as defined in the
Purchase Contract.)

         2.       Issue Price. For purposes of this section the following definitions apply:

      “Effective Time” means the time on the Sale Date that the Agreement to purchase the
Bonds became enforceable.

        “Holding Period” means with respect to each Undersold Maturity the period beginning on
the Sale Date and ending on the earlier of the following:

                  (1)    the close of the fifth (5th) business day after the Sale Date; or

                  (2)    the date and time at which the Purchaser has sold at least 10% of that
         Undersold Maturity of the Bonds to the Public at one or more prices that are no higher than
         the Initial Offering Price.

         “Initial Offering Price” means the price listed on Exhibit A for each Maturity.

       “Maturity” means Bonds with the same credit and payment terms; Bonds with different
maturity dates, or Bonds with the same maturity date but different stated interest rates, are treated
as separate maturities.

        “Public” means any person (including an individual, trust, estate, partnership, association,
company, or corporation) other than an Underwriting Firm or a related party to an Underwriting
Firm. An Underwriting Firm and a person are related if it and the person are subject, directly or
indirectly, to (A) more than 50% common ownership of the voting power or the total value of their
stock, if both entities are corporations (including direct ownership by one corporation of another),


4898-4664-8929, v. 3                              B-1
(B) more than 50% common ownership of their capital interests or profits interests, if both entities
are partnerships (including direct ownership by one partnership of another), or (C) more than 50%
common ownership of the value of the outstanding stock of the corporation or the capital interests
or profit interests of the partnership, as applicable, if one entity is a corporation and the other entity
is a partnership (including direct ownership of the applicable stock or interests by one entity of the
other.

       “Purchaser” means ________________________________, on its own behalf and as
representative of each Underwriting Firm.

      “Undersold Maturity” or “Undersold Maturities” means any Maturity for which less than
10% of the principal amount of Bonds of that Maturity were sold as of the Effective Time.

         “Underwriting Firm” means (A) any person that agrees pursuant to a written contract with
the Issuer (or with the lead underwriter to form an underwriting syndicate) to participate in the
initial sale of the Bonds to the Public, and (B) any person that agrees pursuant to a written contract
directly or indirectly with a person described in clause (A) of this definition to participate in the
initial sale of the Bonds to the Public (including a member of a selling group or a party to a third-
party distribution agreement participating in the initial sale of the Bonds to the Public).

          The Purchaser represents as follows:

        1.   Attached as Attachment 1 is a copy of the pricing wire or similar communication
used to communicate the Initial Offering Price of each Maturity to the Public.

          2.      As of the Effective Time all the Bonds were the subject of an initial offering to the
Public.

        3.       As of the Effective Time none of the Bonds were sold to any person at a price higher
than the Initial Offering Price for that Maturity.

        4.      For any Undersold Maturity, during the Holding Period each Underwriting Firm
did not offer nor sell Bonds of the Undersold Maturity to the Public at a price that is higher than
the respective Initial Offering Price for that Undersold Maturity.

      5.     Any separate agreement among any Underwriting Firm related to the sale of an
Undersold Maturity during the Holding Period contained the agreement referenced in 4 above.

                                                 ________________________________


                                                 By:

                                            Its:
EXHIBIT A – [same as in Bond Purchase Contract]
ATTACHMENT 1 -- Initial Offering Price Documentation
[Attach Pricing Wire or Other Offering Price Documentation]



4898-4664-8929, v. 3                              B-2
                               EXHIBIT G

                       CERTIFICATE OF USEFUL LIFE




4923-6281-6609, v. 3              G-1
                       CERTIFICATE REGARDING ESTIMATED USEFUL LIFE

         The undersigned, __________________ of _________________, has acted as the
[Architect or Engineer] for the Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah in
connection with the construction a park and recreation facility and all related improvements and
the renovation, retrofit and improvements of a city hall, including seismic upgrades and related
improvements (the “Series 2025 Project”), and based upon the foregoing, the undersigned hereby
certifies to the best of his/her knowledge that the estimated useful life of the Series 2025 Project
is not less than forty (40) years assuming proper maintenance and repair.

Dated: __________, 2025




                                              By: ________________________________




4935-5965-7057, v. 2
                                 EXHIBIT H

                       PRELIMINARY OFFICIAL STATEMENT




4923-6281-6609, v. 3                H-1
This Preliminary Official Statement and the information contained herein are subject to completion or amendment. Under no circumstances shall this Preliminary Official Statement constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of                                                                                                             Gilmore & Bell DRAFT 09/11/2025

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PRELIMINARY OFFICIAL STATEMENT DATED [__________], 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NEW ISSUE                                                                                                          Rating: [_____] “[___]”
an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the securities, in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Book-Entry Only Form                                                                                        (See “BOND RATING” herein.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In the opinion of Gilmore & Bell, P.C., Bond Counsel to the Authority, under existing law and assuming continued compliance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         with certain requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the interest on the Series 2025 Bonds (including any original
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         issue discount properly allocable to an owner thereof) is excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes and is not an item
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of tax preference for purposes of the federal alternative minimum tax.. [The Series 2025 Bonds are not “qualified tax-exempt obligations”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         within the meaning of Section 265(b)(3) of the Code.] Bond Counsel notes that interest on the Series 2025 Bonds may be included in adjusted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         financial statement income of applicable corporations for purposes of determining the applicability and amount of the federal corporate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         alternative minimum tax. Bond Counsel is also of the opinion that the interest on the Series 2025 Bonds is exempt from State of Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         individual income taxes. See “TAX MATTERS” in this Official Statement.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              $[PAR]*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEASE REVENUE BONDS, SERIES 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Payable from Base Rentals to be Made by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pursuant to an Annually Renewable Lease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dated: Date of Delivery                                                                   Due: [Principal Month, Day], as shown below
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025 (the “Series 2025 Bonds”) of the Local Building Authority of the City of Holladay, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (the “Authority”) are issuable as fully registered bonds and when initially issued will be registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York (“DTC”), which will act as securities depository for the Series 2025 Bonds.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Purchases of Series 2025 Bonds will be made in book-entry form only, in the principal amount of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         through brokers and dealers who are, or who act through, DTC participants. Owners of the Series 2025 Bonds will not be entitled to receive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         physical delivery of bond certificates so long as DTC or a successor securities depository acts as the securities depository with respect to the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Series 2025 Bonds. Interest on the Series 2025 Bonds is payable on [Principal Month, Day] and [Interest Month, Day] of each year,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         commencing [Principal Month, Day], 2025, all as more fully described herein. Payment of the principal of and interest on such Series 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bonds will be made directly to DTC or its nominee. Disbursement of such payments to DTC participants is the responsibility of DTC and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         disbursement of such payments to the beneficial owners is the responsibility of DTC participants. See “THE SERIES 2025 BONDS—Book-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Entry Only System” herein.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The Series 2025 Bonds are subject to [optional] [and sinking fund redemption] prior to maturity. See “THE SERIES 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BONDS—Redemption” herein.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The proceeds of the Series 2025 Bonds will be used to (i) to finance all or portion of the costs of (a) the acquisition and construction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of a City park and recreation facility and all related improvements and (b) the renovation, retrofit, and improvements of a city hall including
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         seismic upgrades and all related improvements (collectively, the "Series 2025 Project") and (ii) pay costs of issuance of the Series 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bonds.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The Series 2025 Bonds are issued under and are equally and ratably secured by the Indenture. Pursuant to the Indenture, the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Authority has pledged and assigned to the Trustee, among other things, its right, title and interest in and to the Lease, including its right to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         receive the Base Rentals under the Lease as security for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Series 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bonds. In addition, the Authority will grant a security interest in the Project for the equal and proportionate benefit of the owners of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Series 2025 Bonds. The Series 2025 Bonds are limited obligations of the Authority payable solely from the revenues and receipts received
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pursuant to the Lease and other funds or amounts held by the Trustee under the Indenture as security for the Series 2025 Bonds.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Under the herein described Lease, the City of Holladay, Utah (the “City”) has agreed to make payments in stated amounts which
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         are sufficient to pay the principal of and the interest on the Series 2025 Bonds coming due in each year but only if and to the extent that the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         municipal council of the City annually appropriates funds sufficient to pay the Base Rentals coming due during each succeeding Renewal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Term under the Lease plus such additional amounts as are necessary to operate and maintain the Project during such period. The Lease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         specifically provides that nothing therein shall be construed to require the municipal council to appropriate any money to pay any Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Rentals or Additional Rentals thereunder and that the City shall not be obligated to pay such Rentals except to the extent appropriated.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THE OBLIGATION OF THE CITY TO PAY ANY RENTALS IS ANNUALLY RENEWABLE AS PROVIDED IN THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LEASE. NEITHER THE OBLIGATION OF THE CITY TO PAY RENTALS NOR THE OBLIGATION OF THE AUTHORITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO PAY THE SERIES 2025 BONDS WILL CONSTITUTE A DEBT OF THE CITY OR THE STATE OR ANY POLITICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUBDIVISION THEREOF. THE ISSUANCE OF THE SERIES 2025 BONDS DOES NOT DIRECTLY OR CONTINGENTLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OBLIGATE THE CITY TO PAY ANY RENTALS BEYOND THOSE APPROPRIATED FOR THE CITY’S THEN CURRENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FISCAL YEAR. THE SERIES 2025 BONDS ARE NOT AN INDEBTEDNESS OR A LIABILITY OF THE CITY OR THE STATE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THE AUTHORITY HAS NO TAXING POWER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The Series 2025 Bonds are offered when, as and if issued by the Authority and subject to the approval of their legality by Gilmore
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         & Bell, P.C., Bond Counsel to the Authority. Certain legal matters will be passed upon for the Authority and the City by Todd Godfrey, City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Attorney. Certain matters will be passed upon for the Authority by Gilmore & Bell, P.C., as disclosure counsel to the Authority. It is expected
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         that the Series 2025 Bonds, in book-entry only form, will be available for delivery to DTC or its agent on or about [Closing Date], 2025.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   This cover page contains certain information for quick reference only. It is not a summary of this issue. Investors must read the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         entire Official Statement to obtain information essential to the making of an informed investment decision. This Official Statement is dated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         __________, 2025, and the information contained herein speaks only as of that date.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       [Underwriter]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *         Preliminary; subject to change.
                                                            $[PAR]*

                                            LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF
                                              CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH

                                       LEASE REVENUE BONDS, SERIES 2025

                                                  MATURITY SCHEDULE

        Due
     ([Principal          Principal              Interest
    Month, Day])          Amount*                 Rate                  Yield                 Price             CUSIP No.**




     [$__________ _____% Term Bond due [Principal Month, Day], 20___; Price _____%; CUSIP No. _____**]



*         Preliminary; subject to change.

**         The above-referenced CUSIP numbers have been assigned by an independent company not affiliated with the parties to
this Bond transaction and are included solely for the convenience of the holders of the Series 2025 Bonds. None of the Authority,
the City, the Trustee or the Underwriter is responsible for the selection or use of such CUSIP numbers, and no representation is
made as to their correctness on the Series 2025 Bonds or as indicated above. The CUSIP number for a specific maturity is subject
to being changed after the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds as a result of various subsequent actions including but not limited to,
a refunding in whole or in part of such maturity or as a result of the procurement of secondary market portfolio insurance or other
similar enhancement by investors that is applicable to all or a portion of certain maturities.
         The information set forth herein has been obtained from the Authority, the City, DTC, and other sources that
are believed to be reliable. The information and expressions of opinion herein are subject to change without notice,
and neither the delivery of this Official Statement nor any sale made thereafter shall under any circumstances create
any implication that there has been no change in the affairs of the Authority or the City, or in any other information
contained herein since the date hereof.

          No dealer, broker, salesman or any other person has been authorized by the Authority, the City, or the
Underwriter to give any information or to make any representations, other than those contained in this Official
Statement, in connection with the offering contained herein, and, if given or made, such information or representations
must not be relied upon. This Official Statement does not constitute an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy
nor shall there be any sale of the Series 2025 Bonds by any person in any jurisdiction in which it is unlawful for such
offer, solicitation or sale.

          This Official Statement contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities
laws. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements concerning expectations, beliefs, opinions,
future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions concerning matters that are not
historical facts. The forward-looking statements in this Official Statement are subject to risks and uncertainties that
could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements.

         The Underwriter has provided the following sentence for inclusion in this Official Statement:

         The Underwriter has reviewed the information in this Official Statement in accordance with, and as
         part of, its responsibilities to investors under the federal securities laws as applied to the facts and
         circumstances of this transaction, but the Underwriter does not guarantee the accuracy or
         completeness of such information.

         The yields at which the Series 2025 Bonds are offered to the public may vary from the initial reoffering yields
on the front cover page of this Official Statement. In connection with this offering, the Underwriter may engage in
transactions that stabilize, maintain or otherwise affect market prices of the Series 2025 Bonds. Such transactions, if
commenced, may be discontinued at any time.

        The City maintains a website; however, the information presented there is not a part of this Official Statement
and should not be relied upon in making an investment decision with respect to the Series 2025 Bonds.

      THE SERIES 2025 BONDS WILL NOT BE REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933,
AS AMENDED, OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAW AND WILL NOT BE LISTED ON ANY STOCK OR
OTHER SECURITIES EXCHANGE. THE SERIES 2025 BONDS HAVE NOT BEEN APPROVED OR
DISAPPROVED BY THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OR ANY STATE SECURITIES
COMMISSION, NOR HAS THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OR ANY STATE
SECURITIES COMMISSION PASSED UPON THE ACCURACY OR ADEQUACY OF THIS OFFICIAL
STATEMENT. ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE CONTRARY IS A CRIMINAL OFFENSE.




                                                            i
                                                                $[PAR] *
                                                     LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF
                                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH

                                                  LEASE REVENUE BONDS, SERIES 2025


                                                                  City of Holladay, Utah
                                                                  4850 South 2300 East
                                                                  Holladay, Utah 84117
                                                                      (801) 272-9450


                                              GOVERNING BOARD OF THE AUTHORITY

Robert Dahle .....................................................................................................................................President and Chair
Ty Brewer ................................................................................................................................................. Boardmember
Matt Durham ............................................................................................................................................ Boardmember
Paul Fotheringham.................................................................................................................................... Boardmember
Drew Quinn .............................................................................................................................................. Boardmember
Emily Gray ............................................................................................................................................... Boardmember

                                                              CITY ADMINISTRATION

Gina Chamness .......................................................................................................................................... City Manager
Christian Larsen ................................................................................................................................... Finance Manager
Holly Smith ............................................................................................................................... Assistant City Manager
Stephanie Carlson ..................................................................................................................................... City Recorder
Todd Godfrey ............................................................................................................................................ City Attorney


    TRUSTEE, PAYING AGENT & REGISTRAR                                                                                   MUNICIPAL ADVISOR
    [Trustee]                                                                                                     LRB Public Finance Advisors, Inc.
                                                                                                                    41 North Rio Grande, Suite 101
                                                                                                                        Salt Lake City, Utah 84101


    UNDERWRITER                                                                                             BOND & DISCLOSURE COUNSEL
                                                                                                                           Gilmore & Bell, P.C.
    [To be determined]                                                                                         15 West South Temple, Suite 1400
                                                                                                                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84101




*
            Preliminary; subject to change.



4915-1003-4018, v. 2
                                                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION............................................................ 1               Financial Controls .............................................. 19
   The Authority ............................................................ 1          Sources of General Fund Revenues ................... 20
   The City .................................................................... 1       Five-Year Financial Summaries ......................... 20
   Authorization and Purpose of the Series 2025 Bonds 2                                  Additional Information ...................................... 24
   Initial Bonds; Additional Bonds................................ 2                     Certain Property Tax Matters ............................. 24
   Security for and Sources of Payment of the Bonds;                                     Uniform Fees ..................................................... 24
     Limited Obligations ............................................... 2               Tax Levy and Collection .................................... 25
   Redemption ............................................................... 3          Public Hearing on Certain Tax Increases ........... 25
   Registration, Denominations and Manner of                                             Taxable and Fair Market Value of Property in the
     Payment ................................................................. 3           City ................................................................. 26
   Tax Status.................................................................. 3        Historical Summaries of Taxable Values of
   Conditions of Delivery, Anticipated Date, Manner                                        Property in the City ........................................ 27
     and Place of Delivery ............................................ 4                Property Tax Levies and Collections ................. 27
   Continuing Disclosure............................................... 4                Principal Property Taxpayers ............................. 28
   Basic Documentation ................................................ 4             RISK FACTORS ....................................................... 28
   Contact Persons ......................................................... 4           Non-Appropriation ............................................. 28
THE SERIES 2025 BONDS ............................................ 5                     Changes in Makeup of City Council .................. 29
   General ...................................................................... 5      Expiration or Termination of Lease ................... 29
   Redemption ............................................................... 5          Limited Remedies .............................................. 30
   Book-Entry Only System .......................................... 6                   Destruction of Projects ....................................... 30
   Registration, Transfer and Exchange ........................ 6                        Depreciation and Obsolescence ......................... 31
SECURITY FOR THE BONDS ...................................... 7                          Acquisition of the Project .................................. 31
   General ...................................................................... 7      Potential Environmental Risks ........................... 32
   Debt Service Reserve Fund ....................................... 7                   Tax Status........................................................... 32
   Security Documents .................................................. 8               Additional Parity Debt ....................................... 32
   Cross-Collateralization.............................................. 8               Cybersecurity ..................................................... 32
   Release of Portions of the Projects upon Payment of                                LEGAL MATTERS .................................................. 33
     Related Series of Bonds......................................... 8                  General ............................................................... 33
   Additional Bonds and Refunding Bonds................... 9                             Litigation ............................................................ 33
ESTIMATED SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS ...... 12                                         TAX MATTERS ....................................................... 33
THE SERIES 2025 PROJECT ....................................... 12                       Opinion of Bond Counsel .................................. 33
DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE ON THE SERIES 2025                                                 Other Tax Consequences ................................... 34
   BONDS ................................................................... 13       MUNICIPAL ADVISOR .......................................... 35
THE AUTHORITY ........................................................ 14             UNDERWRITING .................................................... 35
   Establishment .......................................................... 14        BOND RATING ....................................................... 36
   Corporate Powers .................................................... 14           CONTINUING DISCLOSURE ................................ 36
   Statutory Powers ..................................................... 14          MISCELLANEOUS ................................................. 36
   Organization ............................................................ 14          Independent Accountants ................................... 36
THE CITY...................................................................... 15        Additional Information ...................................... 36
   General Information ................................................ 15
   Form of Government............................................... 15               APPENDIX A FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF
   Employee Workforce and Retirement Plan ............. 15                               CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH FOR FISCAL
   Risk Management ................................................... 16                YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2024....................... A-1
   Investment of Funds ................................................ 16            APPENDIX B EXTRACTS OF THE INDENTURE
DEBT STRUCTURE OF THE AUTHORITY AND                                                      AND THE MASTER LEASE .......................... B-1
   THE CITY .............................................................. 17         APPENDIX C DEMOGRAPHIC AND ECONOMIC
   Authority Obligations ............................................. 17                INFORMATION REGARDING
   City Obligations ...................................................... 17            THE CITY AND SALT LAKE COUNTY ...... C-1
   Future Financing Plans............................................ 17              APPENDIX D FORM OF CONTINUING
   No Defaulted Bonds ................................................ 17                DISCLOSURE UNDERTAKING ................... D-1
   Outstanding General Obligation Bonds .................. 17                         APPENDIX E FORM OF OPINION
   Debt Authorization and Limit ................................. 17                     OF BOND COUNSEL ..................................... E-1
   Computation of Overlapping General Obligation                                      APPENDIX F PROVISIONS REGARDING
     Debt ..................................................................... 18       BOOK-ENTRY ONLY SYSTEM ....................F-1
   Debt Ratios.............................................................. 18
FINANCIAL INFORMATION REGARDING THE
   CITY ....................................................................... 18
   Fund Structure; Accounting Basis .......................... 18
   Budget and Appropriation Process.......................... 19
   4915-1003-4018, v. 2
                                            OFFICIAL STATEMENT

                                                 RELATING TO

                                                $[PAR]*
                                     LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH

                                   LEASE REVENUE BONDS, SERIES 2025

                                                INTRODUCTION

         This Official Statement, including the cover page, introduction, and appendices, provides information in
connection with the issuance and sale by the Local Building Authority of City of Holladay, Utah (the “Authority”) of
its $[PAR] * Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025 (the “Series 2025 Bonds”), initially issued in book-entry form only.
This introduction is not a summary of this Official Statement. It is only a brief description of and guide to, and is
qualified by more complete and detailed information contained in the entire Official Statement, including the cover
page and appendices hereto, and the documents summarized or described herein. A full review should be made of the
entire Official Statement. The offering of the Series 2025 Bonds to potential investors is made only by means of the
entire Official Statement. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined are defined in “APPENDIX B—
EXTRACTS OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE INDENTURE AND MASTER LEASE.”

      See also the following appendices attached hereto: APPENDIX A—FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CITY
OF HOLLADAY, UTAH FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2024; APPENDIX B—EXTRACTS OF THE
INDENTURE AND THE MASTER LEASE; APPENDIX C—DEMOGRAPHIC AND ECONOMIC
INFORMATION REGARDING THE CITY AND SALT LAKE COUNTY; APPENDIX D—FORM OF
CONTINUING DISCLOSURE UNDERTAKING; APPENDIX E—FORM OF OPINION OF BOND COUNSEL;
APPENDIX F—PROVISIONS REGARDING BOOK-ENTRY ONLY SYSTEM.

The Authority

         The Authority is a nonprofit corporation created by the city council of City of Holladay, Utah (the “City”)
pursuant to the Local Building Authority Act, Title 17D, Chapter 2, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended (the
“Building Authority Act”) and the Utah Revised Nonprofit Corporation Act, Title 16, Chapter 6a, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, as amended (the “Nonprofit Corporation Act”). The Authority was created by the City for the
purpose of financing projects on behalf of the City as provided in the Building Authority Act. For more complete
information, see “THE AUTHORITY” herein.

The City

         The City was incorporated in 1999, covers an area of approximately 9 square miles and is located in the
central eastern portion of Salt Lake County, Utah (the “County”). It is surrounded by the neighboring cities of Salt
Lake City, South Salt Lake City, Millcreek City, Midvale City, Murray City, and Cottonwood Heights City, and also
the western slope of the Wasatch Mountains. The U.S. Census Bureau’s 2024 estimate of the City’s population was
30,588 residents.

      For additional information regarding the City, see “THE CITY” herein and “APPENDIX A—FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS OF CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2024” and
“APPENDIX C—DEMOGRAPHIC AND ECONOMIC INFORMATION REGARDING THE CITY AND SALT
LAKE COUNTY.”




*
         Preliminary; subject to change.
Authorization and Purpose of the Series 2025 Bonds

          The Series 2025 Bonds are being issued pursuant to (i) the Building Authority Act; (ii) the Local Government
Bonding Act, Title 11, Chapter 14, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended (the “Local Government Bonding Act”);
(iii) a General Indenture of Trust dated as of [Closing Month] 1, 2025 (the “General Indenture”), as supplemented by
a First Supplemental Indenture of Trust dated as of [Closing Month] 1, 2025 (the “First Supplemental Indenture,” and
together with the General Indenture, the “Indenture”), each by and between the Authority and [Trustee], as trustee (the
“Trustee”); and (iv) the authorizing resolution of the Authority adopted on September 18, 2025. The issuance of the
Series 2025 Bonds and the execution and delivery of the hereinafter defined Lease and the Indenture were approved
by the City pursuant to a resolution adopted by the city council of the City (the “City Council”), on September 18,
2025.

         The Series 2025 Bonds are being issued to (i) to finance all or portion of the costs of (a) the acquisition and
construction of a City park and recreation facility and all related improvements and (b) the renovation, retrofit, and
improvements of a city hall including seismic upgrades and all related improvements (collectively, the "Series 2025
Project") and (ii) pay costs of issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds.

          The Series 2025 Project will be leased by the Authority to the City pursuant to an annually renewable Master
Lease Agreement dated as of [Closing Month] 1, 2025 (the “Lease”), between the Authority, as lessor, and the City,
as lessee.

         The Authority will use a portion of the proceeds of the Series 2025 Bonds to acquire the Series 2025 Project.
[The property on which the Series 2025 Project will be located (the “Series 2025 Project Site”) is owned by the City
and will be ground-leased to the Authority pursuant to a Ground Lease Agreement dated as of [Closing Month] 1,
2025 (the “Ground Lease”), between the City, as lessee, and the Authority, as lessor. The term of the Ground Lease
will expire on June 30, 20[___] *; provided that the Ground Lease is subject to extension until June 30, 20[___], in the
event of non-appropriation by the City or failure by the City to pay in full the cost of improvement to the Series 2025
Project Site as provided in the Ground Lease.] The leasehold interest in the Project Site constitutes part of the Series
2025 Project and references herein to the Series 2025 Project include such interests. To provide additional security to
the Bondholders, the Authority will assign all its rights and interest in the Ground Lease to the Trustee pursuant to an
Assignment of Ground Lease Agreement dated as of [Closing Month] 1, 2025 (the “Assignment of Ground Lease”).
See “THE SERIES 2025 PROJECT” herein.

Initial Bonds; Additional Bonds

         The Series 2025 Bonds are the initial Series of Bonds to be issued under the General Indenture. The Indenture
permits the issuance of Additional Bonds secured on a parity with the Series 2025 Bonds, subject to certain conditions.
The Series 2025 Bonds and any Additional Bonds issued under the Indenture are referred to collectively herein as the
“Bonds.” See “SECURITY FOR THE BONDS—Additional Bonds” and APPENDIX B—EXTRACTS OF THE
INDENTURE AND THE MASTER LEASE herein.

Security for and Sources of Payment of the Bonds; Limited Obligations

         The Series 2025 Bonds are issued under and are equally and ratably secured by the Indenture. Pursuant to
the Indenture, the Authority has pledged and assigned to the Trustee, among other things, its right, title and interest in
and to the Lease, including its right to receive the Base Rentals (as defined below) under the Lease as security for the
payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds (as hereinafter defined). In addition, the
Authority has granted a security interest in the Projects under a Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
Security Agreement, dated as of [Closing Month] 1, 2025 ( “Leasehold Deed of Trust”). The Leasehold Deed of
Trust, the Assignment of Ground Lease, and any financing statements filed in connection therewith are sometimes
collectively referred to herein as the “Security Documents.” The Security Documents are being executed for the equal
and proportionate benefit of the Bondowners. The Bonds are limited obligations of the Authority payable solely from



*
         Preliminary; subject to change.


4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                        2
the revenues and receipts received pursuant to the Lease and other funds or amounts held by the Trustee under the
Indenture as security for the Bonds.

         Under the Lease, the City has agreed to make payments in stated amounts which are sufficient to pay the
principal of and the interest on the Bonds coming due in each year (collectively, the “Base Rentals”) but only if and
to the extent that the City Council annually appropriates funds sufficient to pay the Base Rentals coming due during
each succeeding Renewal Term (as described herein) under the Lease plus such additional amounts (the “Additional
Rentals”) as are necessary to operate and maintain the Project during such period. The Lease specifically provides
that nothing therein shall be construed to require the City Council to appropriate any money to pay any Base Rentals
or Additional Rentals (collectively, the “Rentals”) thereunder and that the City shall not be obligated to pay such
Rentals except to the extent appropriated.

      THE OBLIGATION OF THE CITY TO PAY ANY RENTALS IS ANNUALLY RENEWABLE AS
PROVIDED IN THE LEASE. NEITHER THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE CITY TO PAY RENTALS NOR THE
OBLIGATION OF THE AUTHORITY TO PAY THE BONDS WILL CONSTITUTE A DEBT OF THE CITY OR
THE STATE OR ANY POLITICAL SUBDIVISION THEREOF. THE ISSUANCE OF THE SERIES 2025 BONDS
DOES NOT DIRECTLY OR CONTINGENTLY OBLIGATE THE CITY TO PAY ANY RENTALS BEYOND
THOSE APPROPRIATED FOR THE CITY’S THEN CURRENT FISCAL YEAR. THE SERIES 2025 BONDS
ARE NOT AN INDEBTEDNESS OR A LIABILITY OF THE CITY OR THE STATE. THE AUTHORITY HAS
NO TAXING POWER.

         The Indenture and Security Documents create a lien on and a security interest in the Projects for the benefit
of the Registered Owners (as defined herein) of the Bonds. The Projects financed are cross-collateralized pursuant to
the terms of the Indenture and Security Documents in that the City cannot elect to appropriate with respect to one or
a portion of a Projects and not appropriate with respect to other Projects or another portion of the Project without an
Event of Nonappropriation occurring under the Lease.

Redemption

         The Series 2025 Bonds are subject to [optional] [and sinking fund redemption] prior to maturity as described
herein. See “THE SERIES 2025 BONDS—Redemption” herein.

Registration, Denominations and Manner of Payment

          The Series 2025 Bonds are issuable only as fully registered bonds without coupons and, when initially issued,
will be registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York
(“DTC”). DTC will act as securities depository of the Series 2025 Bonds. Purchases of Series 2025 Bonds will be
made in book-entry form only, in the principal amount of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, through brokers and
dealers who are, or who act through, DTC participants. Beneficial Owners of the Series 2025 Bonds will not be
entitled to receive physical delivery of bond certificates so long as DTC or a successor securities depository acts as
the securities depository with respect to the Series 2025 Bonds.

          Principal of and interest on the Series 2025 Bonds (interest payable [Principal Month, Day] and [Interest
Month, Day] of each year, commencing [Principal Month, Day], 2025) are payable by [Trustee], as paying agent (the
“Paying Agent”), to the registered owners of the Series 2025 Bonds. So long as DTC is the registered owner, it will,
in turn, remit such principal and interest payments to its Participants, for subsequent disbursements to the Beneficial
Owners of the Series 2025 Bonds, as described under “THE SERIES 2025 BONDS—Book-Entry Only System”
herein.

Tax Status

         In the opinion of Gilmore & Bell, P.C., Bond Counsel to the Authority, under existing law and assuming
continued compliance with certain requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the interest on
the Series 2025 Bonds (including any original issue discount properly allocable to an owner thereof) is excludable
from gross income for federal income tax purposes and is not an item of tax preference for purposes of the federal



4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                      3
alternative minimum tax. Bond Counsel notes that interest on the Series 2025 Bonds may be included in adjusted
financial statement income of applicable corporations for purposes of determining the applicability and amount of the
federal corporate alternative minimum tax. Bond Counsel is also of the opinion that the interest on the Series 2025
Bonds is exempt from State of Utah individual income taxes. See “TAX MATTERS” in this Official Statement. Bond
Counsel expresses no opinion regarding any other tax consequences relating to ownership or disposition of or the
accrual or receipt of interest on the Series 2025 Bonds.

Conditions of Delivery, Anticipated Date, Manner and Place of Delivery

         The Series 2025 Bonds are offered, subject to prior sale, when, as and if issued and received by the
Underwriter subject to approval of legality by Gilmore & Bell, P.C., Bond Counsel to the Authority, and certain other
conditions. Certain legal matters will be passed on for the Authority and the City by Todd Godfrey, City Attorney. It
is expected that the Series 2025 Bonds in book-entry form will be available for delivery for deposit with DTC or its
agent on or about [Closing Date], 2025.

Continuing Disclosure

         The City will execute a Continuing Disclosure Undertaking for the benefit of the beneficial owners of the
Series 2025 Bonds to enable the Underwriter to comply with the requirements of Rule 15c2-12 under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. See “CONTINUING DISCLOSURE” and “APPENDIX D—FORM OF
CONTINUING DISCLOSURE UNDERTAKING.”

Basic Documentation

        The “basic documentation,” which includes the Indenture, the Lease, the Ground Lease, the Security
Documents, and other documentation, authorizing the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds and establishing the rights
and responsibilities of the City, the Authority, and other parties to the transaction, may be obtained from the “contact
persons” as indicated below.

Contact Persons

         The chief contact person for the Authority and the City concerning the Series 2025 Bonds is:

                                            Gina Chamness, City Manager
                                                  City of Holladay
                                                4580 South 2300 East
                                                Holladay, Utah 84117
                                                   (801) 272-9450
                                           gchamness@cityofholladay.com

         The chief contact persons for the Municipal Advisor concerning the Series 2025 Bonds are:

                                          Laura D. Lewis, Principal/Owner
                                         LRB Public Finance Advisors, Inc.
                                          41 North Rio Grande, Suite 101
                                            Salt Lake City, Utah 84101
                                                  (801) 456-3912
                                                  laura@lrb.com




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                       4
                                              THE SERIES 2025 BONDS

General

         The Series 2025 Bonds are dated as of the date of their initial delivery, and except as otherwise provided in
the Indenture, shall bear interest from said date. Interest on the Series 2025 Bonds will be payable semiannually on
[Principal Month, Day] and [Interest Month, Day] of each year commencing [Principal Month, Day], 2025. The Series
2025 Bonds are issued as fully registered bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof.

         The Series 2025 Bonds shall bear interest at the rates and shall mature on the dates as described on the cover
page hereof. Interest on the Series 2025 Bonds will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months. Interest on the Series 2025 Bonds will be payable by check or draft mailed by the Trustee to the
registered owner thereof (initially DTC) as of the Record Date.

Redemption

          [Optional Redemption. The Series 2025 Bonds maturing on or prior to [Principal Month, Day], 20___, are
not subject to redemption prior to maturity. The Series 2025 Bonds maturing on or after [Principal Month, Day],
20___, are subject to redemption prior to maturity at the option of the Authority in whole or in part on any date on and
after [Principal Month, Day], 20___, and if in part, in such order of maturity as may be directed by the Authority at a
redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Series 2025 Bonds to be redeemed plus accrued interest
to the date of redemption.]

         [Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. The Series 2025 Bonds maturing on [Principal Month, Day], 20___,
are subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof
plus accrued interest thereon to the redemption date on the dates and in the principal amounts as follows:

                              Mandatory Sinking Fund Date                   Principal
                               ([Principal Month, Day])                     Amount



___________________
* Final maturity date.

         Upon redemption of any Series 2025 Bonds maturing on [Principal Month, Day], 20___, other than by
application of such mandatory sinking fund redemption, an amount equal to the principal amount so redeemed will be
credited toward a part or all of any one or more of such mandatory sinking fund redemption amounts for the related
Series 2025 Bonds, in such order as shall be directed by the Authority.]

           Extraordinary Redemption. The Series 2025 Bonds shall be callable for redemption prior to maturity in
whole on any date, if (i) the Series 2025 Project or a material portion thereof is damaged or destroyed or taken in a
condemnation proceeding, or a material defect in the construction of the Series 2025 Project shall become apparent,
or title to or the use of all or any material portion of the Series 2025 Project shall be lost by reason of a defect in title
thereto, (ii) the Net Proceeds of any insurance policy, performance bond or condemnation award made available by
reason of one or more such occurrences shall be insufficient to pay in full the cost of repairing or replacing such
portion of the Series 2025 Project, and (iii) the City elects to discharge its obligation to repair and replace such portion
of the Series 2025 Project by depositing such Net Proceeds into the Bond Fund. Upon the deposit of such Net Proceeds
in the Bond Fund, the payment obligations of the City with respect to the Series 2025 Project under the Lease shall
terminate and the City shall have no further obligation for the payment of Base Rentals and Additional Rentals
thereunder with respect to the Series 2025 Project, and possession of the Series 2025 Project, as well as all right, title
and interest of the City and the Authority in any funds or accounts created under the Indenture with respect to the
Series 2025 Project shall be surrendered to the Trustee, as trustee for the Bondholders. Thereafter, the Indenture and
the Security Documents for the Series 2025 Project may, subject to the limitations of the Indenture, be foreclosed and
the Authority’s interest in the Series 2025 Project liquidated and the proceeds of such liquidation and the Net Proceeds
of any insurance policy, performance bond or condemnation award so deposited in the Bond Fund, as well as all other



4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                         5
moneys on deposit in any fund created under the Indenture with respect to the Series 2025 Project (except moneys
held in the Rebate Fund or for the payment of Series 2025 Bonds not then deemed outstanding), shall be applied by
the Trustee to the redemption of the Series 2025 Bonds at the earliest date practicable. Any such redemption of the
Series 2025 Bonds shall be made upon payment of all or a prorated portion of the principal amount thereof plus
accrued interest thereon to the redemption date. IN THE EVENT THE SERIES 2025 BONDS ARE TO BE
REDEEMED BY PAYMENT OF AN AMOUNT LESS THAN THE OUTSTANDING PRINCIPAL AMOUNT
THEREOF, AND ACCRUED INTEREST TO THE REDEMPTION DATE, NO FURTHER CLAIM FOR
PAYMENT MAY BE HAD BY THE BONDHOLDERS AGAINST THE AUTHORITY, THE CITY OR THE
TRUSTEE WITH RESPECT TO SAID SERIES 2025 BONDS. In the event there are moneys remaining in the Bond
Fund after payment in full of all Series 2025 Bonds, the Trustee is authorized and directed to transfer said moneys to
the City.

         Notice and Effect of Redemption. Notice of redemption shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid,
to all Registered Owners of Series 2025 Bonds to be redeemed at their addresses as they appear on the registration
books of the Registrar at least 30 days but not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. Such notice
shall contain certain information set forth in the Indenture.

         If at the time of mailing of any notice of optional redemption there shall not be on deposit with the Trustee
moneys sufficient to redeem all the Bonds called for redemption, such notice shall state that such redemption is subject
to the deposit of the redemption moneys with the Trustee not later than the opening of business on the redemption
date and that such notice shall be of no effect unless such moneys are so deposited and transmitted to the Registered
Owners of said Bonds on the redemption date.

          Partially Redeemed Series 2025 Bonds. In case any registered Series 2025 Bond shall be redeemed in part
only, upon the presentation of such Series 2025 Bond for such partial redemption, the Authority shall execute and the
Trustee shall authenticate and shall deliver or cause to be delivered to or upon the written order of the Registered
Owner thereof, at the expense of the Authority, a Series 2025 Bond or Series 2025 Bonds of the same interest rate and
maturity, in aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of such registered Series 2025 Bond. A
portion of any Bond of the authorized denomination of more than the authorized denomination to be redeemed will
be in the principal amount of the authorized denomination or an integral multiple thereof and in selecting portions of
such Bonds for redemption, the Trustee will treat each such Bond as representing that number of Bonds of the
authorized denomination which is obtained by dividing the principal amount of such Bonds by the authorized
denomination.

Book-Entry Only System

          The Series 2025 Bonds are issuable as fully registered bonds and when initially issued will be registered in
the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York (“DTC”), which will
act as securities depository for the Series 2025 Bonds. So long as such Series 2025 Bonds are held in the Book-Entry
Only system, DTC or its nominee will be the registered owner or Holder of such Series 2025 Bonds for all purposes
of the Indenture, the Series 2025 Bonds and this Official Statement. Purchases of beneficial ownership interests in
the Series 2025 Bonds may be made in the denominations described above. For a description of the book-entry system
for the Series 2025 Bonds, see “APPENDIX F—PROVISIONS REGARDING BOOK-ENTRY ONLY SYSTEM.”

Registration, Transfer and Exchange

         In the event that the book-entry only system has been terminated, the Series 2025 Bonds, upon surrender
thereof at the principal corporate trust office of the Trustee with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the
Trustee, duly executed by the Bondowner or his duly authorized attorney, may be exchanged for an equal aggregate
principal amount of Series 2025 Bonds of the same series, designation, interest rate, and maturity and of any other
authorized denominations.

        The Trustee shall require the payment by the Bondholder requesting exchange or transfer of Series 2025
Bonds of any tax or other governmental charge which are required to be paid with respect to such exchange or transfer.




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                       6
         The Trustee shall not be required to transfer or exchange any Series 2025 Bonds (i) during the period from
and including any Regular Record Date, to and including the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, (ii) during the
period from and including the day fifteen days prior to any Special Record Date, to and including the date of the
proposed payment pertaining thereto, (iii) during the period from and including the day fifteen days prior to the mailing
of notice calling any Series 2025 Bonds for redemption, to and including the date of such mailing, or (iv) at any time
following the mailing of notice calling such Series 2025 Bond for redemption.

                                             SECURITY FOR THE BONDS

General

          The Bonds are not general obligations but are special, limited obligations of the Authority. The Bonds and
the interest thereon are payable solely from, and are secured by a pledge of the Base Rentals, the Purchase Option
Price, if paid by the City, and any other amounts derived by the Authority under the Lease and the Indenture, except
to the extent payable from certain moneys held under the Indenture (excluding the Rebate Fund) and from the
investment thereof, the proceeds of certain insurance policies, performance bonds, condemnation awards and
liquidation proceeds, if any. The Bonds and the interest thereon shall not constitute an indebtedness of the City within
the meaning of any constitutional provision or statutory limitation and shall not constitute or give rise to a pecuniary
liability of the City, nor shall any of the Bonds or interest thereon be a charge against the general credit or taxing
powers of the City. Neither the City, nor the Authority on its behalf, has pledged the credit of the City to the payment
of the Bonds, the interest thereon or amounts due, or to become due, under the Lease. The Authority has no taxing
power.

         Under the Lease, the City has agreed to pay Base Rentals in amounts and at times that are sufficient to pay
principal of and interest on the Bonds coming due in each fiscal year, but only if and to the extent that the City Council
annually appropriates funds sufficient to pay the Base Rentals coming due during each succeeding Renewal Term plus
such Additional Rentals as are payable under the Master Lease during such period. The Lease specifically provides
that nothing therein shall be construed to require the City to appropriate any moneys to pay the Base Rentals or
Additional Rentals thereunder and the City shall not be obligated to pay such Rentals with respect to a Project unless
such Project is substantially completed and only to the extent appropriated. Neither the issuance of the Series 2025
Bonds nor the execution and the delivery of the Lease directly or contingently obligates the City to pay any Base
Rentals or Additional Rentals beyond those appropriated for the City’s then current fiscal year. See “RISK
FACTORS” herein.

          Under the Lease, the City is entitled not to appropriate Rentals for the next succeeding Renewal Term with
respect to all of the Projects, but it is not entitled to elect to appropriate with respect to less than all of the Projects. In
other words, the City Council’s decision under the Lease whether to appropriate Rentals for each succeeding Renewal
Term is “all or nothing.”

Debt Service Reserve Fund

         The Indenture creates a Debt Service Reserve Fund and provides that a separate account for each Series of
Bonds shall be established within the Debt Service Reserve Fund. The Indenture provides that moneys in the Debt
Service Reserve Fund shall at all times be maintained in a total aggregate principal amount of not less than the Debt
Service Reserve Requirement for all Outstanding Series of Bonds.

         There is no Debt Service Reserve Requirement for the Series 2025 Bonds and no subaccount in the Debt
Service Reserve Fund will be established for the Series 2025 Bonds.

       For additional information, see APPENDIX B—EXTRACTS OF THE INDENTURE AND THE MASTER
LEASE.”




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                           7
Security Documents

         In addition to a pledge of the Base Rentals, the Purchase Option Price, if paid by the City, and any other
amounts derived by the Authority under the Lease and the Indenture, the Bonds will be secured by the Security
Documents. The Security Documents consist of the Leasehold Deed of Trust, the Assignment of Ground Lease, and
any financing statements filed in connection therewith.

         The Project Site is owned by the City and will be leased by the City to the Authority pursuant to the Ground
Lease. The term of the Ground Lease corresponds to the final maturity of the Series 2025 Bonds (subject to extension
until June 30, 20[___] in the event of non-appropriation by the City or failure by the City to pay in full the cost of
improvement to the Project Site as provided in the Ground Lease). To provide additional security to the Bondholders,
the Authority will assign all its rights and interest in the Ground Lease to the Trustee pursuant to the Assignment of
Ground Lease. In addition, the Authority will encumber its leasehold interest in the Series 2025 Project to the Trustee
pursuant to the Leasehold Deed of Trust.

          Reference is hereby made to the actual Security Documents for a complete recital of their terms. During the
period of the offering of the Series 2025 Bonds, copies of the Security Documents or their preliminary forms will be
available at the office of the Municipal Advisor. Subsequent to the initial offering of the Series 2025 Bonds, copies
of the Security Documents may be obtained from the Trustee. Under the Leasehold Deed of Trust, the Authority will
irrevocably warrant, grant, transfer, convey and assign to the Trustee, in trust with power of sale, all of its right or
leasehold right, title and interest in the Projects (including the Series 2025 Project), including, but not limited to real
property, rents, issues, profits, royalties, income, interest in the leases or subleases, options to purchase, easements,
rights of way, proceeds of insurance or condemnation and tangible personal property in order to provide additional
security for the Authority’s payment obligations with respect to the Bonds and the Indenture. The Leasehold Deed of
Trust generally provides for the procedure by which the Trustee can foreclose the lien on the Projects or sell the
Authority’s interest or leasehold interest in the Projects to pay the Authority’s payment obligations under the Bonds
and the Indenture.

        No deficiency judgment upon foreclosure of the lien of the Indenture or of the Security Documents
may be entered against the City or the Authority, and no judgment requiring a payment of money may be
entered against the City under the Lease.

Cross-Collateralization

          Pursuant to the Indenture and the Master Lease, the Authority has granted to the Trustee for the benefit of
the owner of all of the Bonds issued and outstanding under the Indenture a mortgage lien on, and security interest in,
all of the Authority’s right, title and interest in and to each Project financed under the Indenture to the extent provided
in the Indenture. The occurrence of an Event of Default under the Indenture (including and Event of Nonappropriation
under the Master Lease) will entitle the Trustee to exercise its rights and remedies to the extent provided in the
Indenture against any or all of such Projects in such manner and order as the Trustee determines to be in the best
interests of the owners of the Bonds then outstanding. The Series 2025 Bonds are the initial series of Bonds under the
Indenture and the Series 2025 Project is the only Project currently being financed under the Indenture.

Release of Portions of the Projects upon Payment of Related Series of Bonds

          Pursuant to the Lease, the City has been granted the option of purchasing all or any of the Projects in advance
of the final maturity of the Bonds. So long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing under the
Indenture and so long as no Event of Default or Event of Nonappropriation shall have occurred and be continuing
under the Lease, a Project may be released from the lien created with respect to the related Series of Bonds and the
Indenture and the Lease and transferred to the City if (i) the City shall deposit with the Trustee the Purchase Option
Price for the related Project and (ii) if the interest payable on the related Series of Bonds is excludable from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, there shall have been delivered to the Trustee an opinion of nationally
recognized bond counsel to the effect that the release of the related Project will not adversely affect the excludability
of interest on said Bonds from the federal gross income of the owners thereof.




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                        8
Additional Bonds and Refunding Bonds

         General. Pursuant to the Indenture, the Authority may issue additional Series of Bonds under the Indenture
which shall be equally and ratably secured under the Indenture with the Series 2025 Bonds. Prior to the authentication
by the Trustee of each Series of Bonds there shall have been filed with the Trustee certain documents, certificates and
opinions.

         Refunding Bonds. So long as the Master Lease is in effect and no Event of Default under the Indenture or
the Master Lease has occurred and is continuing and so long as no Event of Nonappropriation has occurred and is
continuing, one or more Series of Refunding Bonds may be issued, authenticated and delivered for the purpose of
refunding Bonds or other obligations of the Authority. The Refunding Bonds may be issued in one or more Series,
shall be authenticated by the Trustee and, upon payment to the Trustee of the proceeds of said sale of Refunding
Bonds, they shall be delivered by the Trustee to or upon the order of the purchasers thereof, but only upon satisfaction
of the general conditions specified by the Indenture for authentication and delivery of Bonds and upon there being
filed with the Trustee:

                  (a)       Original executed counterparts of a Supplemental Indenture, a supplement or amendment
         (if necessary) to the Security Documents and the Master Lease providing for the issuance of such Refunding
         Bonds, and further providing for a revision to the Base Rentals to be paid by the City under the Master Lease
         to such amount as shall be necessary to pay, assuming that no Event of Default or Event of Nonappropriation
         shall occur, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds (including the Refunding Bonds
         being issued and any Bonds theretofore issued and to remain Outstanding), and to extend the Lease Term if
         the maturity of any of the Refunding Bonds would otherwise occur after the expiration of the then current
         Lease Term. The date or dates of the Refunding Bonds, the rate or rates of interest on the Refunding Bonds,
         and the redemption provisions (if any) with respect thereto all shall be as provided in the Supplemental
         Indenture;

                  (b)      If any of the Bonds being refunded were intended to bear interest which is excludable from
         gross income, a written opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel, to the effect that the excludability
         from gross income of the interest on the Bonds being refunded, for federal income tax purposes, will not be
         adversely affected by the issuance of the Refunding Bonds being issued;

                   (c)      A date down endorsement to the ALTA mortgagee title insurance policy issued in
         connection with the issuance of the Bonds being refunded or commitment therefor (or if the bonds or other
         obligations being refunded were not issued pursuant to this Indenture, an ALTA Mortgagee title insurance
         policy or commitment therefor), which endorsement or policy shall insure to the date of issuance of such
         Refunding Bonds and the recording of any supplement or amendment to the Security Documents the
         continuing validity of the lien thereof, as modified by any supplement or amendment to the Security
         Documents, as a first and prior lien on the premises thereby secured, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances,
         and which endorsement or policy shall increase the amount of title insurance coverage thereunder, if
         necessary, to an amount, which when added to the coverage provided under any other title policies delivered
         with respect to other Bonds then Outstanding and issued with respect to the Project financed by the Bonds or
         other obligations to be refunded, is at least equal to the aggregate principal amount of all Bonds to be
         Outstanding with respect to such Project following said refunding and naming the Trustee as an insured;
         alternatively, the Authority may reasonably expect to be able to deliver the required mortgage title insurance
         following delivery of the related Series of Bonds, provided that no proceeds of such Bonds shall be drawn
         out of the Construction Fund until such mortgage title insurance is delivered (except for costs of issuance
         related to such Bonds);

                  (d)       A report of an independent firm of certified public accountants to the effect that, upon the
         issuance of the Refunding Bonds, moneys and Direct Obligations will be deposited with the Trustee or an
         escrow agent sufficient to cause the Bonds (or other obligations) being refunded to be deemed paid (or a
         comparable provision of the documents authorizing the obligations to be refunded); or in the event that the
         Bonds (or other obligations) to be refunded are to be redeemed on the date of issuance of the Refunding
         Bonds or within 90 days thereafter, there shall be delivered to the Trustee evidence satisfactory to it that upon
         the issuance of the Refunding Bonds moneys and Direct Obligations will be deposited with the Trustee or an


4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                        9
         escrow agent sufficient, without taking into account investment earnings thereon, to redeem the Bonds (or
         other obligations); and

                  (e)      A certificate of the Authority, stating that, as of the date of such delivery, no event or
         condition has happened or exists and is continuing, or is happening or existing, which constitutes, or which,
         with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute, an Event of Default under the Indenture or the Lease
         and there has not occurred and is then continuing an Event of Nonappropriation; provided however that the
         existence of an Event of Default shall not preclude the issuance of any Refunding Bonds if: (i) the issuance
         of such Refunding Bonds otherwise complies with the provisions hereof and (ii) any Event of Default will
         cease to continue upon the issuance of such Refunding Bonds and the application of the proceeds thereof.

         Each Series of Refunding Bonds issued pursuant to the Indenture shall be equally and ratably secured under
the Indenture with the Series 2025 Bonds, the Outstanding Parity Bonds, and all other Series of Refunding Bonds and
Additional Bonds, if any, theretofore issued pursuant to the Indenture, without preference, priority or distinction of
any Bonds over any other thereof.

          Additional Bonds. So long as the Lease is in effect and no Event of Default under the Indenture or the Lease
has occurred and is continuing and so long as no Event of Nonappropriation has occurred and is continuing, one or
more Series of Additional Bonds may be issued, authenticated and delivered for the purpose of financing Costs of
Acquisition and Construction of a Project or Projects. The Additional Bonds may be issued in one or more Series,
shall be authenticated and registered by the Trustee and, upon payment to the Trustee of the proceeds of said sale of
Additional Bonds, they shall be delivered by the Trustee to or upon the order of the purchasers thereof, but only upon
satisfaction of the general conditions specified by the Indenture for authentication and delivery of Bonds and upon
there being filed with the Trustee:

                  (a)       Original executed counterparts of a Supplemental Indenture, additional Security
         Documents or a supplement or amendment (if necessary) to the Security Documents and Master Lease
         providing for the financing of a Project and for the issuance of the Additional Bonds and further providing
         for an increase in the Base Rentals to be paid by the City under the Master Lease in such amount as shall be
         necessary to pay, assuming that no Event of Default or Event of Nonappropriation shall occur, the principal
         of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds (including the Additional Bonds being issued and Bonds
         theretofore issued and Outstanding), and to extend the Lease Term if the maturity of any of the Additional
         Bonds would otherwise occur after the expiration of the then current Lease Term. The date or dates of the
         Additional Bonds, the rate or rates of interest on the Additional Bonds, and the redemption provisions (if
         any) with respect thereto all shall be as provided in the Supplemental Indenture;

                   (b)      A date down endorsement to the ALTA mortgagee title insurance policy issued in
         connection with the issuance of the Initial Bonds (or other Bonds) or commitment therefor or an additional
         ALTA mortgagee title insurance policy or commitment therefor, which endorsement or policy shall insure
         to the date of issuance of such Additional Bonds and the recording of any additional Security Documents or
         supplement to the Security Documents, if required, the continuing validity of the lien thereof, as modified by
         any supplement to the Security Documents, as a first and prior lien on the premises thereby secured, subject
         only to Permitted Encumbrances, and which endorsement or additional policy shall increase the amount of
         title insurance coverage thereunder to an amount at least equal to the aggregate principal amount of the
         Additional Bonds to be issued (or in the case of Additional Bonds issued to complete or extend a Project
         previously financed hereunder the endorsement to the original policy for such Project shall increase the
         coverage to at least the aggregate principal amount of Bonds issued for such Project to be Outstanding
         following the issuance of such Additional Bonds) and naming the Trustee as an insured. In the event that the
         property upon which additional projects are to be located has not been acquired at or prior to the time of
         issuance of the Additional Bonds, the amendment to the Master Lease relating to such Additional Bonds shall
         require that such endorsement or additional title policy with respect to such property be delivered at the time
         of or prior to any disbursements being made from the Construction Fund with respect to such portion of the
         Project (except for costs of issuance relating to such Bonds);

                 (c)       If such Series of Additional Bonds is being issued in whole or in part for construction
         purposes, (i) a copy, duly certified by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Authority, of the project contract and


4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                      10
         architect’s agreement with respect to such construction and the performance and payment bond covering such
         contract or, in the alternative, a requirement that a copy of such documents be delivered to the Trustee prior
         to the time that moneys are withdrawn from the Construction Fund with respect to such portions of the
         Project, and (ii) a certificate of the architect or engineer responsible for planning and designing any such
         construction which sets forth the estimated useful life of the Project or Projects, as so improved and extended,
         in compliance with Section 17D-2-301 of the Building Authority Act; and

                   (d)      A certificate of the Authority, stating that as of the date of such delivery no event or
         condition has happened or exists and is continuing, or is happening or existing, which constitutes, or which,
         with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute, an Event of Default under the Indenture or the Master
         Lease and there has not occurred and is then continuing an Event of Nonappropriation; provided however
         that the existence of an Event of Default shall not preclude the issuance of any Additional Bonds if: (i) the
         issuance of such Additional Bonds otherwise complies with the provisions hereof and (ii) any Event of
         Default will cease to continue upon the issuance of such Additional Bonds and the application of the proceeds
         thereof.

         Each Series of Additional Bonds issued pursuant to the Indenture shall be equally and ratably secured under
the Indenture with the Series 2025 Bonds and all other Series of Additional Bonds and Refunding Bonds, if any,
theretofore issued pursuant to the Indenture, without preference, priority or distinction of any Bonds over any other
thereof.




                                 (The remainder of this page intentionally left blank.)




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                       11
                                        ESTIMATED SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS

         The estimated sources and uses of funds for the Series 2025 Bonds are shown below:

Sources of Funds

         Par Amount of the Series 2025 Bonds .......................................................................... $__________
         [Net] Reoffering Premium............................................................................................... __________

                     TOTAL ............................................................................................................. __________
Uses of Funds

         Deposit to Construction Fund(1)..................................................................................... $__________
         Costs of Issuance(2) .......................................................................................................... __________

                     TOTAL ........................................................................................................... $__________

(1)
         [Includes $__________ for payment of capitalized interest through __________, 20___].
(2)
         Costs of issuance include Underwriter’s discount, Municipal Advisor, legal, rating agency, and Trustee fees
         and other costs and expenses related to the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds.


                                                       THE SERIES 2025 PROJECT

         Proceeds of the Series 2025 Bonds will be used to finance all or portion of the costs of (a) the acquisition and
construction of a City park and recreation facility and all related improvements (the “City Park Project”) and (b) the
renovation, retrofit, and improvements of a city hall including seismic upgrades and all related improvements (the
“City Hall Project”).

        The estimated total cost of the City Park Project is $__________. Construction on the City Park Project
expected to begin [__________], 20[___] and to be completed in [__________], 20[___].

        The estimated total cost of the City Hall Project is $__________. Construction on the City Hall Project
expected to begin [__________], 20[___] and to be completed in [__________], 20[___].




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                                        12
                        DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE ON THE SERIES 2025 BONDS
         The following table sets forth the fiscal year debt service schedule for the Series 2025 Bonds.

       Fiscal Year                  Principal*                     Interest(1)                Fiscal Year Total
          2026
          2027
          2028
          2029
          2030
          2031
          2032
          2033
          2034
          2035
          2036
          2037
          2038
          2039
          2040
          2041
          2042
          2043
          2044
          2045
        TOTAL                    $[PAR]*

*       Preliminary; subject to change.
(Source: The Municipal Advisor.)




                                (The remainder of this page intentionally left blank.)




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                      13
                                                 THE AUTHORITY

Establishment

         The City Council authorized and directed the creation of the Authority on September 11, 2025, as a non-
profit corporation under the provisions of the Utah Revised Nonprofit Corporation Act, Title 16, Chapter 6a, Utah
Code Annotated 1953, as amended and the Local Building Authority Act, Title 17D, Chapter 2, Utah Code Annotated
1953, as amended.

         The Authority is to be of perpetual duration as set forth in its articles of incorporation. The Authority has no
full-time employees or other personnel other than its Board of Trustees. The Authority has no property, money or
other assets, except for those which are to be acquired with the proceeds of, and pledged to the payment of, its bonds.
The principal place of business and office of the Authority is located at 4580 South 2300 East, Holladay, Utah, 84117.

Corporate Powers

         The Authority has been incorporated for the purpose of acquiring, improving or extending one or more
“projects” (as defined in the Building Authority Act) and financing their costs on behalf of the City in accordance
with the procedures and subject to the limitations of the Building Authority Act, in order to accomplish the public
purposes for which the City exists.

          The Authority has all of the powers provided for in the Building Authority Act and in the Constitution and
other laws of the State of Utah. The Authority may not, however, undertake any of the activities provided for in its
articles of incorporation without prior authorization therefor by the City Council. The Authority has been organized
as a non-profit corporation and its articles of incorporation expressly require that it remain a nonprofit corporation.

          The Authority may not be dissolved unless all of its outstanding bonds and other obligations are paid in full
as to principal, interest and redemption premiums, if any, or unless provisions for the payment of the same when due
has been made. Whenever bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued by the Authority are satisfied,
discharged and retired, title to all real and personal property financed with the proceeds of such bonds, notes or other
evidences of indebtedness is required to be forthwith transferred to the City.

Statutory Powers

         Under the Building Authority Act, the Authority has the power to: (i) acquire one or more projects, which,
by definition, means that it may obtain or gain property of every kind or nature which a public body is authorized or
permitted by law to own, possess or hold or which has or may come into its possession or ownership by any lawful
means, including, but not limited to purchase, lease, rental, sale, contract, exchange, devise, bequest, gift,
condemnation, donation, construction or operation of law, and it may otherwise improve or extend such a project or
projects and finance their costs on behalf of the public body which created the Authority in order to accomplish the
public purposes for which the public body exists; (ii) enter into leasing contracts with the City with respect to projects
which the Authority has acquired, improved or extended or will acquire, improve or extend on behalf of the City; (iii)
issue and sell its bonds for the purpose of paying the cost of acquiring, improving or extending a project; and (iv)
perform such other acts as enumerated in the Act; all in accordance with and subject to the specific requirements of
the Building Authority Act with respect to such powers.

Organization

         According to the bylaws of the Authority, the affairs of the Authority are managed by a board of trustees (the
“Board”). The Board consists of all members (the “Boardmembers”) of the City Council as may from time to time
serve. Each Boardmember serves on the Board until death, incapacity or removal from the City Council. Whenever
a member of the City Council ceases to be a member of the City Council, such member’s successor, upon election and
qualifying for office, thereupon becomes a member of the Board.




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                       14
          The bylaws further provide for election of officers by the Board. The current members of the Board and the
officers are set forth at the front of this Official Statement. For additional information regarding the Boardmembers
and the officers, see “THE CITY—Form of Government” below.

                                                       THE CITY

General Information

          The City was incorporated in 1999 and covers an area of approximately 9 square miles. The City is located
in the central eastern portion of Salt Lake County, Utah, surrounded by the neighboring cities of Salt Lake City, South
Salt Lake City, Millcreek City, Midvale City, Murray City, Cottonwood Heights City, and also the western slope of
the Wasatch Mountains. The U.S. Census Bureau’s 2024 estimate of the City’s population was 30,588 residents.

Form of Government

          The City is governed by a six-member city council, one member of which is the Mayor. The Mayor is elected
at large, and the remaining five Council Members are elected by separate voting districts. A measure of continuity is
provided in the City Council by the election of the council members to four-year overlapping terms. State statutes vest
the City Council with the responsibility for all City affairs in general. The City Council must approve and may revise
the annual (fiscal year) budget for the City and of any City departments. The City Council serves as the legislative
body of the City and appropriates funds for the various City functions. The City Council is the tax levying body,
determining the necessary City property tax levy each year. The City Council also licenses and regulates businesses
within the City area. The City Manager acts as the chief executive officer of the City. The City Manager, who reports
directly to the Mayor and City Council, oversees all City departments, manages the day-to-responsibilities of the City,
its employees and services. Other City Council-appointed officials include the Finance Director and City Recorder.

           Current members of the City Council and other officers of the City and their respective terms in office are as
follows:
      Office                                 Person                       Years of Service(1)     Expiration of Term
      Mayor                                  Robert Dahle                         11                 January, 2026
      Council Member                         Ty Brewer                            3                  January, 2026
      Council Member                         Matt Durham                          5                  January, 2028
      Council Member                         Paul Fotheringham                    9                  January, 2026
      Council Member                         Drew Quinn                           5                  January, 2028
      Council Member                         Emily Gray                           1                  January, 2028
      City Manager                           Gina Chamness                        9                    Appointed
      Assistant City Manager                 Holly Smith                        [___]                  Appointed
      Finance Director                       Christian Larsen                   [___]                  Appointed
      City Recorder                          Stephanie Carlson                    23                   Appointed
      City Attorney                          Todd Godfrey                       [___]                  Appointed
(1)
           Amounts have been rounded.

Employee Workforce and Retirement Plan

        The City employs approximately [___] full-time employees and [___] part-time employees for a total of
[___] employees. The City is a member of the Utah Retirement Systems (“URS”), which provides and administers
deferred and defined compensation plans. For information regarding the City’s participation in URS, see
“APPENDIX A—FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED
JUNE 30, 2024—Notes to the Financial Statements—Note I. Retirement Plans.”

           The City does not offer any other post-employment benefits.




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                        15
Risk Management

          The City is exposed to various risks of loss related to torts; theft of, damage to, and destruction of assets;
errors and omissions; injuries to employees; and natural disasters. The City carries commercial insurance for all of
these risks of loss except natural disasters. There were no decreases in coverage during fiscal year 2024. Settlement
amounts have not exceeded insurance coverage for the current year or the three prior years.

Investment of Funds

          Investment of Operating Funds: The Utah Money Management Act. The Utah Money Management Act,
Title 51, Chapter 7, Utah Code (the “MM Act”) governs the investment of all public funds held by public treasurers
in the State. It establishes criteria for investment of public funds with an emphasis on safety, liquidity, yield, matching
strategy to fund objectives, and matching the term of investments to the availability of funds. The MM Act provides
a limited list of approved investments, including qualified in-state and permitted out-of-state financial institutions,
approved government agency securities and investments in corporate securities carrying “top credit ratings.” The MM
Act also provides for pre-qualification of broker dealers requiring that broker dealers must agree in writing to comply
with the MM Act and certify that they have read and understand the MM Act. The MM Act establishes the Money
Management Council (the “MM Council”) to exercise oversight of public deposits and investments. The law requires
all securities to be delivered via payment to the treasurer’s safekeeping bank. It requires diversification of investments,
especially in securities of corporate issuers. The MM Act limits investments in a single issuer of commercial paper
and corporate obligations to between 5% and 10% of an investment portfolio depending on the amount in such
portfolio. Investments in mortgage pools and mortgage derivatives or any security making unscheduled periodic
principal payments are prohibited. The MM Act also defines the State’s prudent investor rules. The MM Council is
comprised of five members appointed by the Governor of the State for terms of four years, after consultation with the
State Treasurer and with the advice and consent of the State Senate.

         The City is currently complying with all of the provisions of the MM Act for all City operating funds. A
significant portion of the City’s funds are invested in the Utah Public Treasurers’ Investment Fund (“PTIF”), as
discussed herein.

          The Utah Public Treasurers’ Investment Fund. The PTIF is a public treasurers’ investment fund, established
in 1981, and managed by the State Treasurer. The PTIF invests to ensure safety of principal, liquidity and a
competitive rate of return on short-term investments. All moneys transferred to the PTIF are promptly invested in
securities authorized by the MM Act. Safe-keeping and audit controls for all investments owned by the PTIF must
comply with the MM Act.

          All investments in the PTIF must comply with the MM Act and rules of the MM Council. The PTIF invests
primarily in money market securities including time certificates of deposit, top rated commercial paper, treasuries and
securities of certain agencies of the U.S. Government. The maximum weighted average adjusted life of the portfolio,
by policy, is not to exceed 90 days. The maximum final maturity of any security purchased by the PTIF is limited to
three years, except that a maximum maturity of five years is allowed for treasury or agency securities whose rate
adjusts at least annually.

         By law, investment transactions are conducted only through certified dealers, qualified depositories or
directly with issuers of the securities. All securities purchased are delivered via payment to the custody of the State
Treasurer or the State Treasures’ safekeeping bank. Securities owned by the PTIF are segregated from securities
owned by the State. The State has no claim on assets owned by the PTIF except for any investment of State moneys
in the PTIF. Deposits are not insured or otherwise guaranteed by the State.

          Securities in the PTIF include certificates of deposit, commercial paper, short-term corporate notes,
obligations of the U.S. Treasury and securities of certain agencies of the U.S. Government. These short-term securities
must be rated “first tier” (“A1,” “P1,” for short-term investments and “A” or better for long-term investments) by two
nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, one of which must be Moody’s or S&P. These securities
represent limited risks to governmental institutions investing with the PTIF. Variable rate securities in the PTIF must
have an index or rate formula that has a correlation of at least 94% of the effective Federal Funds rate. The PTIF itself
is not rated.


4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                        16
        Investment activity of the State Treasurer in the management of the PTIF is reviewed monthly by the MM
Council and is audited by the State Auditor.

                                    DEBT STRUCTURE OF THE AUTHORITY AND THE CITY

Authority Obligations (as of [September] 1, 2025)

                                                   OUTSTANDING LEASE REVENUE BONDS

                                                                                                                                          Principal Amount
      Series                         Purpose                         Original Amount                    Final Maturity Date                  Outstanding
                                                                                                          [Principal Month,
      2025(1)               [__________]                                          [PAR]*                     Day], 20___*                         [PAR]*
            Total .....................................................................................................................              *

(1)
            Assumes that the Series 2025 Bonds are issued and outstanding.
*           Preliminary; subject to change.

City Obligations (as of September 1, 2025)

                                               OUTSTANDING SALES TAX REVENUE BONDS

                                                                                                                                          Principal Amount
      Series                     Purpose                           Original Amount                       Final Maturity Date                 Outstanding
      2022                  Infrastructure                          $15,830,000                         November 15, 2042                    $13,615,000
      2020                     Refunding                                5,200,000                       November 15, 2031                      3,561,000
            Total .....................................................................................................................      $17,176,000

Future Financing Plans

          [The City and the Authority currently do not anticipate issuing any Additional Bonds under the Indenture in
the next three years; however, the City reserves the right to issue other bonds as its capital needs require. ]

No Defaulted Bonds

         The City has never failed to pay principal and interest when due on its outstanding bonded indebtedness or
other obligations.

Outstanding General Obligation Bonds

            The City has no general obligation bonds outstanding.

Debt Authorization and Limit

         Pursuant to the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3, of the Utah Constitution, the City may incur general
obligation indebtedness only upon the approval of a majority of the qualified electors within the City voting on a
proposition to incur such indebtedness.

         Under the Utah Constitution, the general obligation indebtedness of the City is limited to an amount not
exceeding 4% of the value of taxable property in the City as shown in the last assessment for City purposes. The City
may incur an additional amount of general obligation indebtedness, not exceeding 8% of the value of taxable property
in the City, for water, sewer or electric purposes. Based upon the City’s 2024 total estimated fair market value of
$10,377,386,722 (total fair market value of property in the amount of $10,357,167,480 plus the estimated motor
vehicle values for 2024 of $20,219,242, as permitted by State law) the general obligation debt limits of the City are
shown below:


4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                                                 17
                                                                       Water, Sewer
                                           General (4%)              and Electric (8%)             Total (12%)
  Debt Limit                              $415,095,469                   830,190,938             1,245,286,407
  Less Outstanding General
   Obligation Bonds                                  0                             0                         0
  Debt Margin                             $415,095,469                  $830,190,938            $1,245,286,407


Computation of Overlapping General Obligation Debt

       Name of Overlapping                                       Approximate Percentage              City’s
       Governmental Unit(1)            GO Debt Outstanding        Applicable to the City        Share of GO Debt
  Salt Lake County                          $84,278,000                     2.98%                   $2,513,651
  Granite School District                   161,760,000                    11.58                    18,735,710
  CUWCD(2)                                  103,975,000                     1.87                     1,942,291
           TOTAL:                                                                                  $23,191,652

(1)
        The State’s general obligation debt is not included in overlapping debt because the State currently levies no
        property tax for payment of its general obligation bonds.
(2)
        Central Utah Water Conservancy District (“CUWCD”) encompasses all or a portion of eight State counties,
        including, among others, Salt Lake County. CUWCD’s outstanding general obligation bonds are limited ad
        valorem tax bonds. By law, CUWCD may levy a tax rate of up to .0004 (subject to certain exceptions) to pay
        for operation and maintenance expenses and any outstanding general obligation indebtedness.
(Sources: Official statements and other continuing disclosure reports of the listed entities (as to outstanding debt).)

Debt Ratios

        The State of Utah general obligation debt is not included in the debt ratios because the State currently levies
no property tax for payment of general obligation bonds.

                                                             To 2024           To Estimated Fair
                                                          Taxable Value(2)      Market Value(3)       Per Capita(4)
  Direct General Obligation Debt(1)                              –                     –                   –
  Direct and Overlapping General Obligation Debt               0.004                 0.002                $758

(1)
         The City has no outstanding general obligation debt.
(2)
         Based on the City’s total 2024 taxable value of $6,155,883,855.
(3)
         Based on the 2024 fair market value of $10,357,167,480.
(4)
         Based on 2024 population of 30,588.

                                  FINANCIAL INFORMATION REGARDING
                                               THE CITY

Fund Structure; Accounting Basis

          The accounting policies of the City conform to all generally accepted accounting principles for governmental
units in general and the City in particular.

         The accounts of the City are organized on the basis of funds, each of which is considered to be a separate
accounting entity. The operations of each fund or account group are accounted for by providing a separate set of self-
balancing accounts which comprise its assets, liabilities, net assets, revenues and expenditures or expenses. The
various funds are grouped by type in the combined financial statements. See “APPENDIX A—FINANCIAL




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                      18
STATEMENTS OF CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2024—Notes to Basic
Financial Statements—Note A–Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” herein.

        Revenues and expenditures are recognized using the modified accrual basis of accounting in all governmental
funds. Revenues are recognized in the accounting period in which they become both measurable and available.
“Measurable” means that amounts can be reasonably determined within the current period. “Available” means that
amounts are collectible within the current period or soon enough thereafter to be used to pay liabilities of the current
period.

         In proprietary funds, revenues and expenses are recognized using the accrual basis of accounting. Revenues
are recognized in the accounting period in which they are earned and become measurable, and expenses are recognized
in the period incurred.

Budget and Appropriation Process

         The budget and appropriation process of the City is governed by the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah
Cities, Title 10, Chapter 6, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended (the “Fiscal Procedures Act”). Pursuant to the
Fiscal Procedures Act, the budget officer of the City is required to prepare budgets for the general fund, special revenue
funds, debt service funds and capital improvement funds. These budgets are to provide a complete financial plan for
the budget (ensuing fiscal) year. Each budget is required to specify, in tabular form, estimates of anticipated revenues
and appropriations for expenditures.

         On or before the first regular meeting of the City Council in May of each year, the budget officer is required
to submit to the City Council tentative budgets for all funds for the fiscal year commencing July 1. Various actual
and estimated budget data are required to be set forth in the tentative budgets. The budget officer may revise the
budget requests submitted by the heads of City departments, but must file these submissions with the City Council
together with the tentative budget. The budget officer is required to estimate in the tentative budget the revenue from
non-property tax sources available for each fund and the revenue from general property taxes required by each fund.
The budget is then tentatively adopted by the City Council, with any amendments or revisions that the City Council
deems advisable prior to the public hearing on the budget. After public notice and hearing, the tentative budget is
adopted by the City Council, subject to further amendment or revisions by the City Council prior to adoption of the
final budget.

         Prior to June 22 of each year, the final budgets for all funds are adopted by the City Council. The Fiscal
Procedures Act prohibits the City Council from making any appropriation in the final budget of any fund in excess of
the estimated expendable revenue of such fund. The adopted final budget is subject to amendment by the City Council
during the fiscal year. However, in order to increase the budget total of any fund, public notice and hearing must be
provided. Intra- and inter-department transfers of appropriation balances are permitted upon compliance with the
Fiscal Procedures Act.

         The amount set forth in the final budget as the total amount of estimated revenue from property taxes
constitutes the basis for determining the property tax levy to be set by the City Council for the succeeding tax year.

Financial Controls

          The City utilizes a computerized financial accounting system which includes a system of budgetary controls.
State law requires budgets to be controlled by individual departments. [The City has also empowered the Finance
Manager to maintain control by major categories within departments. These controls are such that a requisition will
not be entered into the purchasing system unless the appropriated funds are available. The Finance Manager checks
for sufficient funds prior to the purchase order being issued and again before the payment check is issued.] [City to
review and confirm]




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                       19
Sources of General Fund Revenues

        Set forth below are brief descriptions of the various sources of revenues available to the City’s general fund.
The percentage of total general fund revenues represented by each source is based on the City’s fiscal year period
ended June 30, 2024.

         Taxes—Approximately 76.2% of the general fund revenues are from taxes (consisting of [___]% from sales
and use taxes, [___]% from general property taxes, and [___]% from franchise taxes).

         Licenses, fees and permits—Approximately 4.8% of general fund revenues are from licenses and permits.

         Intergovernmental—Approximately 11.4% of general fund revenues are from intergovernmental revenues.

         Charges for services—Approximately 0.4% of general fund revenues are from charges for services.

         Fines and forfeitures —Approximately 3.3% of the general fund revenues are from fines and forfeitures.

         Miscellaneous—Less than 1% of general fund revenues are from miscellaneous revenues.

         Interest on investments—Approximately 3.1% of the general fund revenues are from interest revenues.

Five-Year Financial Summaries

        The summaries contained herein were extracted from the City’s audited basic financial statements fiscal years
ended June 30, 2020 through June 30, 2024. The summaries have not been audited. See “APPENDIX A—
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2024”
herein.




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                      20
                                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY
                                          Statement of Net Position–Governmental Activities
                                                (This summary has not been audited.)
                                                                                   Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
                                                         2024               2023              2022            2021                2020
  ASSETS
  Cash and cash equivalents                           $30,587,569        $23,071,522      $17,207,366      $14,505,797       $13,171,156
  Receivables:
    Taxes                                              11,390,345          9,914,344        9,579,732         9,734,478           8,322,108
    Intergovernmental                                     648,374            469,440          328,275           416,439             204,675
    Other                                                   1,242                  –            6,048            28,328                   –
  Prepaid expenses                                         40,260              7,500            7,750                 –                   –
  Other assets                                                  –                  –                –           707,619                   –
  Internal balances                                             –                  –          300,000
  Cash and cash equivalents, restricted                 5,754,746          7,346,893       12,061,275         2,411,685            750,011
  Net pension asset                                             –                  –          683,909                 –                  –
  Capital assets not being depreciated:
    Land                                               17,883,431         17,883,431       17,883,431        17,883,431       18,761,431
    Construction in progress                              731,222                  –                –            66,852                –
  Capital assets, net of accumulated depreciation:
    Buildings and improvements                         15,825,781         16,276,545       16,901,052       17,525,559        17,989,165
    Infrastructure                                     53,178,442         54,019,171       51,856,940       50,215,240        52,203,856
    Office furniture and equipment                         98,334            100,741          119,778           39,923            48,562
    Vehicles and equipment                                210,837            217,949          202,210          250,969           263,600
     Total assets                                     136,350,583        129,307,536      127,137,766      113,786,320       111,714,564
  DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
  Deferred loss on refunding                              123,600           139,050           123,600           178,751            203,002
  Deferred outflows related to pensions                   487,390           374,769           487,390           202,164            197,739
     Total deferred outflows of resources                 610,990           513,819           610,990           380,915            400,741
  LIABILITIES
  Accounts payable                                      1,774,309            936,763        1,774,309         2,605,145           1,850,900
  Accrued liabilities                                     104,975             41,430          104,975            17,173              11,557
  Unearned revenue                                         67,041                  –           67,041                 –                   –
  Accrued interest payable                                 47,120             51,119           47,120            14,035              31,711
  Deposits                                                251,357            167,611          251,357           108,422             214,863
  Compensated absences                                     89,737             85,903           89,737            67,590              67,590
  Bonds payable                                         1,104,190          1,070,190        1,104,190           509,865           1,262,865
  Note payable                                             37,500             37,500           37,500           262,500              37,500
  Capital lease                                                 –                  –                –                 –              37,963
  Noncurrent liabilities:
    Compensated absences                                   32,140             43,043           32,140            37,306           26,820
    Bonds payable                                       9,956,570         11,060,760        9,956,570         5,125,000        5,662,865
    Note payable                                          150,000            187,500          150,000           262,500          300,000
    Capital lease                                               –                  –                –                 –          642,926
    Net pension liability                                 271,383            198,041          271,383            55,350          400,798
     Total liabilities                                 13,886,322         13,879,860       13,886,322         8,839,886       10,548,358
  DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
  Deferred property tax revenue                         9,774,150          8,199,951        7,972,264         8,192,566           7,893,192
  Deferred inflows relating to pensions                     3,700              7,599          934,612           409,881             227,091
     Total deferred inflows of resources                9,777,850          8,207,550        8,906,876         8,602,447           8,120,283
  NET POSITION
  Net investment in capital assets                     78,676,737         80,590,776       81,654,271        80,225,860       81,525,497
  Restricted for:
    Debt Service                                          267,365          261,791            267,634          249,764           535,148
    Parks                                               1,794,492        1,794,492          1,794,492                –                 –
    Capital projects                                    2,125,048        4,908,470                  –                –                 –
    Community development – housing                     3,110,976        2,009,021          1,869,449        2,053,499         1,541,294
  Unrestricted                                         27,322,783       18,169,395         16,949,590       14,195,779         9,844,725
     Total net position                              $113,297,401     $107,733,945       $102,535,436      $96,724,902       $93,446,664

(Source: Information extracted from the City’s 2020-2024 audited basic financial statements. This summary itself is unaudited.)



      4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                          21
                                                  CITY OF HOLLADAY
                                                      Balance Sheet
                                           General Fund – Governmental Funds
                                           (This summary has not been audited.)
                                                                             Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
                                                    2024              2023              2022            2021         2020
 ASSETS
 Cash and cash equivalents                        $8,911,591        $5,631,250       $6,611,120      $4,619,297    $3,317,440
 Receivables:
   Taxes                                          10,048,816       8,974,909          8,788,775       8,682,201     5,821,213
   Intergovernmental                                 648,374         469,440            328,275         340,437       204,675
   Other                                               1,242               –              6,048          28,328             –
 Due from other funds                                      –          62,000            549,250         146,041       225,396
 Prepaid expenses                                     40,260           7,500              7,750         707,619             –
 Cash and cash equivalents, restricted               251,357         167,611          1,924,192         108,422       214,863
    Total assets                                 $19,901,640     $15,312,710        $18,215,410     $14,632,345    $9,783,587

 LIABILITIES
 Accounts payable                                  1,432,039          210,094         1,894,325       1,285,674       562,725
 Accrued liabilities                                 104,975           41,430             7,783          17,173        11,557
 Unearned revenue                                     67,041                –                 –               –             –
 Deposits                                            251,357          167,611           129,700         108,422       214,863
   Total liabilities                               1,855,412          419,135         2,031,808       1,411,269       789,145

 DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
 Deferred property tax revenue                     8,432,621         7,260,516        7,181,307       7,140,289     5,392,297
   Total deferred inflows of resources             8,432,621         7,260,516        7,181,307       7,140,289     5,392,297

 FUND BALANCES
 Nonspendable                                         40,260             7,500            7,750         707,619             –
 Restricted for parks                              1,794,492         1,794,492        1,794,492               –             –
 Unassigned                                        7,778,855         5,831,067        7,200,053       5,373,168     3,602,145
   Total fund balances (deficit)                   9,613,607         7,633,059        9,002,295       6,080,787     3,602,145

 Total liabilities, deferred inflows
  and fund balance                               $19,901,640     $15,312,710        $18,215,410     $14,632,345    $9,783,587

(Source: Information extracted from the City’s 2020-2024 audited basic financial statements. This summary itself is unaudited.)




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                           22
                                               CITY OF HOLLADAY
                          Statement of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in Fund Balance
                                                Governmental Funds
                                        (This summary has not been audited.)
                                                                       Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
                                               2024             2023             2022             2021              2020
 REVENUES
 Taxes (pledged as security for bonds)     $17,659,098       $17,675,752      $17,027,585      $13,182,012      $12,206,678
 Licenses, fees and permits                  1,113,283         1,184,206        1,233,215        1,548,162          955,984
 Intergovernmental                           2,639,508         2,423,369        4,281,900        3,569,031        1,704,982
 Charges for services                          100,531            63,034           86,125           65,851           41,037
 Fines and forfeitures                         773,161           577,324          595,239          512,184          607,611
 Miscellaneous                                 166,020           136,518          162,907          123,254          107,519
 Interest on investments                       721,963           398,059           48,285           27,785           96,694
    Total revenues                          23,173,564        22,458,262       23,435,256       19,028,279       15,720,505

 EXPENDITURES
 General Government                           1,877,197        1,646,024        1,448,641        1,723,718        1,654,718
 Public safety                               11,170,854       10,444,036        9,768,997        8,684,035        8,600,687
 Highway and public improvements              2,959,092        2,695,540        2,880,801        2,523,627        2,084,778
 Community and economic                       1,002,658          767,372          735,061
 development                                                                                     1,076,443          930,443
 Parks, recreation, and culture                 822,293            743,082        681,775          604,994          611,641
 Debt service:
   Principal                                     37,500           37,500           37,500           37,500           37,500
   Interest and fiscal agent fees                     –            1,500            3,500            6,000            3,500
    Total expenditures                       17,869,594       16,335,054       15,556,275       14,656,317       13,923,267

 Excess of revenues over expenditures         5,303,970        6,123,208        7,878,981        4,371,962        1,797,238

 OTHER FINANCING SOURCES
 (USES)
 Sale of capital assets                          15,619                –                –            21,755               –
 Transfers in                                   136,778           96,880           77,175            92,260          92,276
 Transfers out                               (3,475,819)      (7,589,324)      (5,034,648)       (2,007,335)     (2,125,798)
    Total other financing sources (uses)     (3,323,422)      (7,492,444)      (4,957,473)       (1,893,320)     (2,033,522)

 Net change in fund balances                  1,980,548       (1,369,236)       2,921,508        2,478,642         (236,284)

 Fund balances, beginning of year             7,633,059        9,002,295        6,080,787        3,602,145        3,838,429
 Fund balances, end of year                  $9,613,607       $7,633,059       $9,002,295       $6,080,787       $3,602,145

(Source: Information extracted from the City’s 2020-2024 audited basic financial statements. This summary itself is unaudited.)




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                          23
Additional Information

        For additional information with respect to the City and its finances see “DEBT STRUCTURE OF THE
CITY,” “APPENDIX A—FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH FOR FISCAL YEAR
ENDED JUNE 30, 2024,” and “APPENDIX C—DEMOGRAPHIC AND ECONOMIC INFORMATION
REGARDING THE CITY AND SALT LAKE COUNTY.”

Certain Property Tax Matters

          The following information with respect to certain property tax matters is included in this Official Statement
to provide background information relating to a major source of general fund revenues of the City. As described
herein, the Series 2025 Bonds are not secured by any pledge of property tax revenues and do not constitute a debt or
indebtedness of the City or the Authority. See “RISKS FACTORS” below.

         The Property Tax Act, Title 59, Chapter 2, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended (the “Property Tax Act”),
provides that all taxable property within the taxing entity is required to be assessed and taxed at a uniform and equal
rate on the basis of 100% of its “fair market value” as of January 1 of each year, unless otherwise provided by law.
“Fair market value” is defined in the Property Tax Act as “the amount at which property would change hands between
a willing buyer and a willing seller, neither being under any compulsion to buy or sell and both having reasonable
knowledge of the relevant facts.” Determinations of “fair market value” shall take into account the current zoning
laws applicable to the property in question. Section 2 of Article XIII of the Utah Constitution provides that the Utah
Legislature may by law exempt from taxation up to 45% of the fair market value of residential property as defined by
law. Pursuant to this provision, the Utah Legislature has provided that the “fair market value” of primary residential
property shall be reduced by 45% for tax years 1995 and thereafter. No more than one acre of land per residential unit
may qualify for the residential exemption.

         The Property Tax Act provides that the State Tax Commission shall assess certain types of property
(“centrally assessed property”), including (i) properties that operate as a unit across county lines that must be
apportioned among more than one county or state, (ii) public utility (including railroad) properties, (iii) airline
operating properties, (iv) geothermal properties and (v) mines, mining claims and appurtenant machinery, furnishings
and improvements, including oil and gas properties. All other taxable property (“locally assessed property”) is
required to be assessed by the county assessor of the county in which such locally assessed property is located. Each
county assessor must update property values annually based upon a systematic review of current market data. Each
county assessor must also complete a detailed review of property characteristics for each parcel of property at least
once every five years. The Property Tax Act requires that the State Tax Commission conduct an annual investigation
in each county to determine whether all property subject to taxation is on the assessment rolls and whether the property
is being assessed at its “fair market value.”

          The State Tax Commission and the county assessors utilize various valuation methods, as determined by
statute, administrative regulation or accepted practice, to determine the “fair market value” of taxable property.

         Many areas within the State have agricultural farmland devoted to the raising of useful plants and animals.
For general property tax purposes, agricultural land is assessed based on statutory requirements and the value which
the land has for agricultural use or on its agricultural value.

Uniform Fees

         An annual statewide uniform fee is levied on tangible personal property in lieu of the ad valorem tax. The
uniform fee is based on either the age or the value of motor vehicles, watercraft, recreational vehicles, and all other
tangible personal property required to be registered with the State. The current uniform fee is established at 1.5% of
the fair market value of motor vehicles that weigh 12,001 pounds or more, watercraft, recreational vehicles and all
other tangible personal property required to be registered with the State, excluding exempt property such as aircraft
and property subject to a fixed age-based fee. Motor vehicles weighing 12,000 pounds or less are subject to an age-
based fee that is due each time the vehicle is registered. The age-based fee is for passenger-type vehicles and ranges
from $10 to $150, depending on the age of the vehicle. Recreational vehicles, motorcycles, watercraft (except large



4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                      24
watercraft), snowmobiles and certain small motor vehicles required to be registered with the State are also subject to
an aged-based fee that ranges from $10 to $700, depending on the age of the vehicle. The revenues collected from the
various uniform fees are distributed by the county to the taxing entity in which the property is located in the same
proportion in which revenue collected from ad valorem real property tax is distributed.

Tax Levy and Collection

         The State Tax Commission must assess all centrally-assessed property by May 1 of each year and shall
immediately notify the owners or operators of such property, and the county assessors, of such assessment. County
assessors must assess all taxable property other than centrally-assessed property before May 22 of each year. Before
May 25 the State Tax Commission apportions the value of centrally-assessed property to the various taxing entities
within each county and reports such values to county auditors before June 8. The governing body of each taxing entity
must adopt a final tax rate before June 22, except as described below for rates in excess of the certified tax rate. County
auditors must forward to the State Tax Commission a statement prepared by the governing body of each taxing entity
showing the amount and purpose of each levy.

         If the State Tax Commission determines that a tax levy established by a taxing entity exceeds the maximum
levy permitted by law, the State Tax Commission must lower the levy to the maximum level permitted by law, must
notify the taxing entity that the rate has been lowered, and must notify the county auditor of the county in which the
taxing entity is located to implement the rate established by the State Tax Commission.

          On or before July 22 of each year, the county auditors must mail to all owners of real estate shown on their
assessment rolls notice of, among other things, the value of the property, itemized tax information for all taxing entities
and the date their respective county boards of equalization will meet to hear complaints. Not later than 30 days
following the mailing of the notice, taxpayers owning property assessed by the county assessors may file an application
with the appropriate county board of equalization for the purpose of contesting the assessed valuation of their property.
The county boards of equalization must render a decision on each appeal no later than October 1 (with extensions
requiring State Tax Commission approval). Such decisions may be appealed to the State Tax Commission, which
must decide all appeals by March 1 of the following year. Owners of centrally assessed property, on or before the
later of June 1 or a day within 30 days of the date the notice of assessment is mailed by the State Tax Commission,
may apply to the State Tax Commission for a hearing to contest the assessment of centrally-assessed property. A
county may also contest the assessment under specified conditions. The State Tax Commission must render a written
decision no later than 120 days following completion of the hearing and submission of all post-hearing briefs. The
county auditors must make a record of all changes, corrections and orders and, before November 1, must deliver the
corrected assessment rolls to their respective county treasurers. By November 1, the county treasurers are to furnish
to each taxpayer a notice containing the kind and value of the property assessed to the taxpayer, the street address of
the property, where applicable, the amount of the tax levied on the property and the year that the property is subject
to a detailed review. Taxes are due November 30, or, if a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, the next business day
following.

          Each county treasurer is responsible for collecting all taxes levied on real property within that county. There
are no prior claims to such taxes. As taxes are collected, each county treasurer must pay the State and each taxing
entity within the county its proportionate share of the taxes, on the tenth day of each month. Delinquent taxes are
subject to a penalty of 2% of the amount of the taxes or $10.00, whichever is greater. Unless the delinquent taxes and
penalty are paid before January 16 of the following year, the amount of delinquent taxes and penalty bears interest at
the federal discount rate in effect on January 1, plus 6% from January 1 until paid. If after four years (March 15 of
the fifth year after assessment) delinquent taxes have not been paid, the affected county may advertise and sell the
property at a tax sale.

Public Hearing on Certain Tax Increases

         Each taxing entity that proposes to levy a tax rate that exceeds the “certified tax rate” may do so, by ordinance,
only after holding a public hearing. Notice of the public hearing must be mailed by July 22 to all owners of real estate
and, in most cases, must be advertised by publication. Generally, the certified tax rate for a taxing entity is the rate
necessary to generate the same property tax revenue that the taxing entity collected for the prior year, exclusive of
collections from redemptions, interest and penalties. For purposes of calculating the certified tax rate, county auditors


4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                        25
are to use the taxable value of property on the assessment rolls, exclusive of new growth. New growth is any increase
in taxable value of the taxing entity from the previous calendar year to the current year, less the amount of increase to
locally-assessed real property taxable values resulting from factoring, reappraisal or any other adjustments. After the
public hearing is held, the taxing entity may adopt a resolution levying a tax in excess of the certified tax rate. If a
resolution levying a tax in excess of the certified tax rate is not forwarded to the county auditor by August 17, the
county auditor must forward the certified tax rate to the State Tax Commission. The final tax notice is then mailed by
November 1.

Taxable and Fair Market Value of Property in the City

                                                 % Change                                            % Change
      Year             Taxable Value(1)        Over Prior Year         Fair Market Value(2)        Over Prior Year
      2024             $6,155,883,855                6.7%               $10,357,167,480                  7.3%
      2023              5,768,095,026                2.9                  9,648,964,086                  2.6
      2022              5,603,233,153               20.9                  9,405,652,655                22.4
      2021              4,636,287,482                9.3                  7,684,925,449                  9.9
      2020              4,241,283,626                7.0                  6,995,108,158                  6.9
      2019              3,964,325,508                7.3                  6,540,621,554                  7.6
      2018              3,693,125,592                6.5                  6,076,983,196                  6.5
      2017              3,466,945,000                4.5                  5,708,577,079                  4.8
      2016              3,318,285,501                8.9                  5,445,338,204                  8.7
      2015              3,046,391,698                –                    5,010,266,225                  –
(1)
        Includes taxable value of all taxable real property in the City (does not include personal property, centrally
        assessed values, or motor vehicle values).
(2)
        Includes taxable value of all taxable real property in the City, less 45% “haircut” on primary residential
        property as permitted by State law. See “–Certain Property Tax Matters” above.
(Source: Utah State Tax Commission, Property Tax Division.)




                                  (The remainder of this page intentionally left blank.)




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                       26
Historical Summaries of Taxable Values of Property in the City

                                                                         Calendar Year
                                           2024              2023            2022                 2021               2020
 Locally Assessed
 Real Property - Land
 Primary Residential                $1,953,997,690    $1,744,144,997     $1,678,554,752       $1,416,249,274     $1,374,368,216
 Secondary Residential                270,676,620        277,574,110        264,098,840         225,205,170        209,753,590
 Commercial & Industrial              270,808,670        233,635,200        198,364,860         193,356,570        194,757,570
 FAA                                            0             16,900             17,400             670,130            625,070
 Unimproved Non FAA - Vacant               17,920                  0                  0                   0                  0
  Total Real Property - Land        2,495,500,900      2,255,371,207      2,141,035,852       1,835,481,144      1,779,504,446
 Real Property - Buildings
 Primary Residential                3,180,897,001     2,999,135,432         2,968,842,883     2,309,859,597      1,991,412,902
 Secondary Residential                 26,422,790        29,550,370            30,270,250        25,571,840         18,144,470
 Commercial & Industrial              353,197,480       390,914,600           371,937,480       358,736,310        338,495,150
 Agricultural                              34,090            26,500                28,590            28,000             29,900
  Total Real Property - Buildings   3,560,052,261     3,419,626,902         3,371,079,203     2,694,195,747      2,348,082,442

      Total Real Property           6,056,052,261     5,674,998,109         5,512,115,055     4,529,676,891      4,127,586,868

 Personal Property
 Primary Mobile Homes                         7,517             3,978              3,978             4,200              4,421
 Secondary Mobile Homes                      67,295            76,913             65,663            44,733             10,654
 Other Business
   Personal Property                   68,393,143           62,913,354        44,499,168        60,186,107         67,336,912
   Total Personal Property             68,467,955           62,994,245        44,568,809        60,235,040         67,351,987

  Total Locally Assessed            6,124,520,216      5,737,992,354      5,556,683,864       4,589,911,931      4,194,938,855
 Centrally Assessed                    31,363,639         30,102,672         46,549,289          46,375,551         46,344,771
   Total Taxable Value              $6,155,883,855    $5,768,095,026     $5,603,233,153       $4,636,287,482     $4,241,283,626

(Source: Utah State Tax Commission.)

Property Tax Levies and Collections

         The following table provides a summary the property tax levies and collections for the City’s general fund
for the years shown:

Tax Year                      Auditor &         Taxes                          Additional
 Ended            Taxes      Treasurer’s     Collected In      Percentage       Amounts                                Total
 Dec. 31          Levied      Relief (1)      Levy Year         of Levy        Received (2)     Adjustments(3)      Collections
  2024          $8,833,881   $(225,726)      $8,608,155         97.44%         $458,795          $(166,175)         $8,900,775
  2023           7,628,660    (183,238)       7,445,422         97.60           431,859           (138,877)          7,738,404
  2022           7,466,876    (193,011)       7,273,864         97.42           395,057           (107,472)          7,561,449
  2021           7,418,493    (166,506)       7,251,987         97.76           396,743            (59,337)          7,589,393
  2020           4,964,198    (101,272)       4,862,927         97.96           282,718           (256,312)          4,889,333

(1)     Includes unpaid taxes, abatements, and other relief.
(2)     Includes tax equivalent and miscellaneous payments, and payment of prior years’ taxes.
(3)     Includes delinquent interest and penalties, amounts paid to the City redevelopment agency, and refunds and
        reallocations from prior years.
(Source: Salt Lake County financial statements for the years shown, “Schedule of Taxes, Charged, Collected, and
Disbursed.”)




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                          27
Principal Property Taxpayers

                                                                                Real Property          % of City Total
  Taxpayer                                        Business Type                 Taxable Value          Taxable Value(1)




                  Total

(1)
        Based on estimated total real property taxable value of the City for calendar year 2024 of $[__________].
(Source: __________.) [Can the City provide this information?]

                                                   RISK FACTORS

      THE PURCHASE OF THE SERIES 2025 BONDS BEING OFFERED HEREBY INVOLVES CERTAIN
INVESTMENT RISKS THAT ARE DISCUSSED THROUGHOUT THIS OFFICIAL STATEMENT.
ACCORDINGLY, EACH PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER OF THE SERIES 2025 BONDS SHOULD MAKE AN
INDEPENDENT EVALUATION OF ALL OF THE INFORMATION PRESENTED IN THIS OFFICIAL
STATEMENT IN ORDER TO MAKE AN INFORMED INVESTMENT DECISION. CERTAIN OF THESE RISKS
ARE DESCRIBED BELOW.

Non-Appropriation

         Base Rentals and Additional Rentals (sometimes collectively referred to herein as “Rentals”) will be payable
solely from City Funds (as defined in the Master Lease) which are annually budgeted and appropriated by the City
Council of the City and which may be terminated by action of the City Council. There is no assurance that the Lease
will be renewed for all of its anticipated Renewal Terms. The City Council is under no obligation to provide City
Funds for such renewals. The City’s obligation under the Lease does not constitute a general obligation or other
indebtedness of the City or the State of Utah or any agency or political subdivision of the State of Utah within the
meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation. THE AUTHORITY HAS NO TAXING POWER.

          Accordingly, the likelihood that the City will extend the term of the Lease for all Renewal Terms and continue
to pay the Base Rentals to enable the Authority to timely pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the
Bonds in the future depends upon a number of factors which are beyond the control of the City, including, but not
limited to, (a) the continuing need of the City for the Projects, (b) the composition of the City Council and their
respective views with respect to the leasing of the Projects, (c) the economic and demographic conditions within the
City, (d) the ability of the City to generate sufficient funds from property taxes and other taxes and other sources of
revenue to pay obligations associated with the Lease and other obligations of the City (whether now existing or
hereafter created), and (e) the value of the Projects in the event of the termination of the term of the Lease as a result
of the occurrence of certain events described below or the expiration of any Renewal Term if the City does not
appropriate sufficient funds that extends the term of the Lease as provided in the Lease. Neither the Indenture nor the
Lease limit the ability of the City to incur additional obligations against its revenues.

          The City has covenanted in the Lease to include in its annual tentative budget prepared by the appropriate
officials of the City an item for expenditure of an amount necessary (after taking into account any and all City Funds
then legally available for such purpose), to pay the Base Rentals and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals during



4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                       28
the next succeeding Renewal Term under the Lease. The decision to renew or not to renew the term of the Lease is
to be made solely by the City Council at the time it considers for adoption the final budget relating to each Renewal
Term and not by any official of the City acting in his or her individual capacity.

         In the event the City Council fails to renew the Lease for all contemplated Renewal Terms, fails to budget
and appropriate sufficient City Funds for the payment of Base and Additional Rentals or defaults under the Lease, the
Lease, which is subject to annual renewal, will be terminated, and, in such event, the Bonds will be payable from any
moneys held by the Trustee under the Indenture, and the proceeds, if any, from a liquidation or other disposition of
the Projects subsequent to foreclosure of the lien of the Indenture and the Security Documents. In such event, the City
has agreed to immediately vacate the Projects.

Changes in Makeup of City Council

         The individuals elected to serve on the City Council may change during the period the Series 2025 Bonds
are outstanding. There can be no assurance that the membership of the City Council will not change in a manner that
will result in a future City Council ceasing to appropriate Rentals under the Lease for the Project. Under the Lease,
the City is entitled not to appropriate Rentals for the next succeeding Renewal Term with respect to all of the
components constituting the Project, but is not entitled to appropriate with respect to only a portion, but not all, of
such components constituting the Project.

Expiration or Termination of Lease

           The Lease will expire by its terms on each June 30 during the years [20___ through 20___], unless the City,
in its sole discretion exercises the option provided in the Lease to extend the term of the Lease for each next succeeding
Renewal Term with a final lease expiration date of [[Principal Month, Day], 20___] (the scheduled final maturity of
the Series 2025 Bonds). In the event that the City does not extend in any year the term of the Lease, the City’s
obligation to pay Rentals will terminate on the June 30 occurring at the end of the then current Renewal Term. Upon
(a) the expiration of any Renewal Term of the Lease during which an Event of Nonappropriation occurs or (b) a default
under the Lease and an election by the Trustee to terminate the possessory interest of the City under the Lease, the
City’s rights of possession of the Projects under the Lease will expire or be terminated, as appropriate.

          In the event that the City’s right of possession of the Projects under the Lease expires or is terminated for
either of the reasons described in the preceding paragraph, the obligation of the City to pay Rentals thereunder will
terminate and the Series 2025 Bonds will be payable from, among other sources, such moneys, if any, as may be
available under the Indenture. Should the Lease expire at the end of a Renewal Term without any extension for the
next succeeding Renewal Term or if an event occurs pursuant to which the Trustee terminates the City’s right of
possession of the Projects under the Lease, the Trustee may recover and relet or sell the Authority’s interest in the
Projects as provided in the Indenture, subject to the Ground Lease. The Net Proceeds of any reletting or sale of the
Projects together with certain other moneys then held by the Trustee under the Indenture, are required to be used to
pay the Series 2025 Bonds to the extent of such moneys. However, each separate public facility or property
constituting the Projects represents special purpose facilities or property for use in connection with providing particular
governmental services. No assurance can be given that the Trustee could relet or sell the Projects for the amount
necessary to pay the principal of and the interest on the Series 2025 Bonds.

          A potential purchaser of the Series 2025 Bonds should not assume that it will be possible to relet or sell the
Projects after the expiration or termination of the City’s right to possess the Projects under the Lease as described
above for an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Series 2025 Bonds then outstanding plus accrued
interest thereon. In this regard, it should be noted that (a) the Projects may be subject to ad valorem taxes and other
property taxation if owned by someone other than the City or other governmental body, (b) the use of the Projects by
a non-governmental entity may affect the tax-exempt status of interest on the Series 2025 Bonds, (c) the Projects may
not be suitable for general commercial use, and (d) zoning restrictions could limit the use of the Projects. Furthermore,
no assurance can be given that the amount, if any, realized upon any reletting or sale of the Projects will be available
to provide for the payment of the Series 2025 Bonds on a timely basis.

        Because the Lease will terminate in the event that the City Council fails to budget and appropriate sufficient
City Funds to continue making Base Rentals and Additional Rentals during any Renewal Term of the Lease, a potential


4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                        29
purchaser of the Series 2025 Bonds should carefully consider the nature of the security for payment of the Series 2025
Bonds in the event of a termination of the Master Lease. Under the Indenture and the Security Documents, the Projects
is subject to a lien and security interest granted to the Trustee for the benefit of the holders of the Series 2025 Bonds.
Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Indenture (which is defined to include an Event of Default under
the Master Lease), the Trustee may foreclose its lien on the Projects and may, subject to the Ground Lease, take
possession of the Projects as trustee and fiduciary for the holders of the Series 2025 Bonds. In such event, the amount
of payment on the Series 2025 Bonds will be dependent upon the ability of the Trustee to sell or lease the Projects to
a subsequent purchaser or lessee. The ability of the Trustee to sell or lease the Projects may be limited to other
governmental entities, since the use of the Projects by a non-governmental entity may adversely affect the tax-exempt
status of interest on the Series 2025 Bonds. A potential purchaser of the Series 2025 Bonds should carefully consider
the information currently available and presented herein concerning the Projects. A potential Bondholder should not
assume that it will be possible to liquidate the Projects after foreclosure of the lien of the Indenture for an amount
equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Series 2025 Bonds then outstanding, plus accrued interest thereon.

Limited Remedies

          A termination of the City’s right of possession of the Projects under the Lease as a result of an Event of
Default or expiration of the term of the Lease at the end of any Renewal Term without an extension for the next
succeeding Renewal Term will give the Trustee the right to possession of, and the right to relet the Projects in
accordance with the provisions of the Lease and the Indenture, subject to the Ground Lease. However, the
enforceability of the Lease and the Indenture is subject to the applicable bankruptcy laws, equitable principles affecting
the enforcement of creditors’ rights generally and liens securing such rights, the police powers of the State of Utah,
the exercise of judicial authority by state or Federal courts and the exercise by the United States of America of the
powers delegated to it by the Federal Constitution. In addition, the Projects may be used for limited purposes. Due
to the limited remedies available with respect to the Projects, the limited uses of the Projects and the delays inherent
in obtaining foreclosure on real property and other judicial remedies, no assurance can be given that a court, in the
exercise of judicial discretion, would enforce these remedies in a timely manner. Any delays in the ability of the
Trustee to obtain possession of the Projects, of necessity, will result in delays in any payment of principal of or interest
on the Series 2025 Bonds. Nor can any assurance be given that any moneys realized by the Trustee upon an exercise
of any remedies would be sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on the Series 2025 Bonds. In the event any
such moneys recovered are in an amount less than the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Series 2025
Bonds, plus accrued interest, the Series 2025 Bonds would be paid in part on a pro rata basis as described under the
Indenture, and no holder of any Series 2025 Bond will have any further claim for payment upon the Authority or the
City. See “APPENDIX B—EXTRACTS OF THE INDENTURE AND THE MASTER LEASE—The Indenture—
Application of Moneys.”

Destruction of Projects

          The Lease requires that the Projects be insured by policies of insurance. If, prior to the termination of the
Lease Term and the payment in full of the Series 2025 Bonds (or the making of provisions for the payment thereof in
accordance with the Indenture) (i) the Projects or any material portion thereof shall be destroyed (in whole or in part),
or damaged by fire or other casualty; or (ii) title to, or the temporary or permanent use of the Projects or any material
portion thereof or the Projects or any material portion thereof shall be taken under the exercise of the power of eminent
domain by any governmental body or by any person, firm or corporation acting under governmental authority; or (iii)
a material defect in construction of a Projects shall become apparent; or (iv) title to or the use of all or any material
portion of the Projects shall be lost by reason of a defect in title thereto, the City shall be obligated, subject to the
City’s right to discharge its obligation to repair or replace the Projects, to continue to pay Rentals regardless of whether
the Projects shall have been accepted.

         Subject to the City’s right to discharge its obligation to repair or replace the Projects, the City, the Authority,
and the Trustee shall cause the Net Proceeds of any insurance policies, performance bonds or condemnation awards
with respect to the Projects to be deposited in the Construction Fund if received before the Completion Date of the
Projects and in a separate trust fund under the Indenture if received thereafter. All Net Proceeds so deposited shall be
applied to the prompt repair, restoration, modification or improvement of said Projects by the City. The balance of
any such Net Proceeds remaining after such repair, restoration, modification or improvement has been completed shall
be transferred to the Bond Fund to be applied to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the


4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                        30
Series 2025 Bonds, or if said Bonds shall have been fully paid (or provision for payment thereof has been made in
accordance with the provisions of the Indenture), any balance remaining in such Construction Fund or separate trust
fund shall be paid to the City. If the Net Proceeds shall be insufficient to pay in full the cost of any repair, restoration,
modification or improvement, the City shall, from and to the extent of available City Funds, complete the work and
pay any cost in excess of the amount of the Net Proceeds.

          In the event that the Net Proceeds of any insurance policy, performance bond or condemnation award shall
be insufficient to pay in full the cost of any repair, restoration, or modification of the Projects, the appropriate budget
officers of the City shall, within 15 days of notice of such insufficiency, seek an appropriation from the City Council
for an amount equal to any such insufficiency. In the event that the City shall fail to appropriate, by the first day of
the next Renewal Term following such request for an appropriation, an amount at least equal to such insufficiency for
such purpose, the obligation to repair and replace the Projects may be discharged by depositing the Net Proceeds of
the insurance policies, performance bonds or condemnation awards made available by reason of such occurrence into
the Bond Fund. Upon the deposit of such Net Proceeds in said Bond Fund, the City shall have no further obligation
for the payment of Base Rentals and Additional Rentals, and possession of the Projects as well as all rights created
pursuant to the Lease and the interest of the City and the Authority therein and in any funds or accounts created under
the Indenture with respect to the Projects (except for moneys held in the Rebate Fund or for the payment of Series
2025 Bonds not then deemed Outstanding), shall be surrendered to the Trustee, as trustee for the Bondholders of the
Series 2025 Bonds. Thereafter, the Authority’s interest in said Projects may be liquidated pursuant to the provisions
of and subject to the limitations set forth in the Indenture and Security Documents and the proceeds of such liquidation
and the Net Proceeds of any insurance policy, performance bond or condemnation award so deposited in the Bond
Fund, as well as all other moneys on deposit in any fund created under the Indenture with respect to the Projects
(except moneys held in the Rebate Fund or for the payment of Series 2025 Bonds not then deemed Outstanding), shall
be applied to the redemption of the Series 2025 Bonds on the next succeeding redemption date. Such redemption of
the Series 2025 Bonds shall be made upon full or partial payment of the principal amount of said Bonds then
Outstanding and accrued interest thereon all in accordance with the Indenture. See “APPENDIX B—EXTRACTS
OF THE INDENTURE AND THE MASTER LEASE—The Master Lease—Damage, Destruction, and
Condemnation” herein.

          The City is required under the Lease to cause the Projects to be insured by policies of casualty and property
damage insurance in an amount not less than the full insurable value of the Projects. The term “full insurable value”
as used in the Lease means the actual replacement value, or at the option of the City any lesser amount which is equal
to or greater than the principal amount of all of the Series 2025 Bonds then Outstanding which financed said Projects.
Alternatively, the City may insure or cause to be insured under a blanket insurance policy or policies which cover not
only the Projects but other properties in the amounts required by the previous sentence. However, there is no assurance
that, in the event the Lease is terminated as a result of damage to or destruction or condemnation of the Projects,
moneys made available by reason of such an occurrence will be sufficient to redeem the Series 2025 Bonds at a price
equal to the principal amount thereof outstanding plus accrued interest to the redemption date.

Depreciation and Obsolescence

         Certain components of the Projects may become obsolete, may depreciate in value or may wear out during
the time that the Series 2025 Bonds are outstanding. In addition, components of the Projects may be difficult or
impossible to remove from their place of service or use. Consequently, following an Event of Nonappropriation or an
Event of Default under the Lease of the Indenture or termination of the Lease for any reason, any amounts realized by
the Trustee from a reletting or sale of the Projects may not be sufficient to redeem or pay all outstanding Series 2025
Bonds in full.

Acquisition of the Project

         The acquisition, construction, furnishing and equipping of the 2025 Project is expected to be completed in
[__________ 20___]. The Authority and the City believe, but there can be no assurance, that the proceeds of sale of
the Series 2025 Bonds, together with certain investment earnings thereon, will be sufficient to complete the
acquisition, construction and equipping of the 2025 Project. In the event such proceeds are insufficient, the Authority
is authorized, pursuant to the Master Lease, to complete the acquisition, construction and equipping of the Project
from legally available funds, but only in connection with the issuance of Additional Bonds issued pursuant to the


4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                         31
Indenture or from moneys otherwise legally available for that purpose. The Indenture provides that Additional Bonds
may be issued for the purpose of completing the 2025 Project subject to satisfaction of certain conditions provided in
the Indenture. There can be no assurance that such Additional Bonds will be permitted under then applicable law or
that the City Council will agree to the issuance of Additional Bonds at that time. If issued, Additional Bonds will be
secured under the Indenture on a parity with the Series 2025 Bonds. In the event that the 2025 Project is not completed
on a timely basis and assuming that no Additional Bonds are issued to complete construction of the 2025 Project, the
City may not be willing to appropriate Rentals and there will be no moneys to pay debt service on the Series 2025
Bonds. In such event, Bondholders and the Trustee may pursue remedies under the Indenture. See “APPENDIX B—
EXTRACTS OF THE INDENTURE AND THE MASTER LEASE—The Indenture–Acceleration, Limitation on
Remedies,” and –Other Remedies; Rights of Bondholders.”

Potential Environmental Risks

          [The ownership of real property or the grant of mortgages, deeds of trust or other encumbrances on real
property creates a potential for environmental liability on the part of the owner of such real property and the party
secured by such mortgages, deeds of trust or other encumbrances. If hazardous substances are discovered at a Project
Site or discovered to be emanating from a Project Site, the owner or operator of the property may be held strictly liable
for all costs and liabilities relating to the disposing of or dealing with such hazardous substances. This liability could
greatly exceed the value of such Project. In the event that the Trustee or a Bondowner obtains title to the Authority’s
interest in a Project Site, becomes involved in the operation of the property or attempts to realize on its security, a
court may hold the Trustee or the Bondowner liable for such costs and expenses, even if the Trustee or the Bondowner
had no knowledge of the existence of such hazardous substances. The existence of environmental risks could prevent
the Trustee from exercising certain of its remedies or rights under the Lease and the Indenture upon the occurrence of
an Event of Default thereunder.]

       [The Series 2025 Project is located on land owned by the City and leased to the Authority pursuant to the
Ground Lease.] [Have any environmental studies been done on the property?]

Tax Status

          Failure by the Authority or the City to comply with certain covenants in the Indenture, the Master Lease and
the tax matters certificate executed by the City and the Authority at the time of issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds, on
a continuous basis, so long as any of the Series 2025 Bonds are outstanding under the Indenture and thereafter as
required by such covenants and applicable law, could result in interest on the Series 2025 Bonds becoming includible
in federal gross income, retroactive to the date of their original issuance. See “TAX MATTERS” herein. The
Indenture and the Series 2025 Bonds do not provide for the payment of any additional interest or penalty in the event
that interest on the Series 2025 Bonds becomes includible in federal gross income.

Additional Parity Debt

          The Indenture provides that the Authority may issue Additional Bonds upon compliance with certain
requirements. In the event the Authority were to issue Additional Bonds, such issuance of Additional Bonds could
result in dilution of the collateral security pledged to secure the payment of the Series 2025 Bonds. [The Authority
currently does not have any plans to issue any Additional Bonds].

Cybersecurity

         [The risk of cyberattacks against commercial enterprises, including those operated for a governmental
purpose, has become more prevalent in recent years. At least one of the rating agencies factors the risk of such an
attack into its ratings analysis, recognizing that a cyberattack could affect liquidity, public policy and constituent
confidence, and ultimately credit quality. A cyberattack could cause the informational systems of the City to be
compromised and could limit operational capacity, for short or extended lengths of time and could bring about the
release of sensitive and private information. Additionally, other potential negative consequences include data loss or
compromise, diversion of resources to prevent future incidences and reputational damage. To date, the City has not
experienced a successful cyberattack. The City believes it has made all reasonable efforts to ensure that any such



4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                       32
attack is not successful and that the City’s information systems are secure. However, there can be no assurance that a
cyberattack will not occur in a manner resulting in damage to the City’s information systems or other challenges. The
City has insurance coverage for cyber-liability.] [City to review and confirm.]

                                                   LEGAL MATTERS

General

          The authorization and issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds is subject to the approval of legality by Gilmore &
Bell, P.C., Bond Counsel to the Authority. Certain matters will be passed upon for the Authority by Gilmore & Bell,
P.C., as disclosure counsel to the Authority. Certain legal matters will be passed upon for the Authority and the City
by Todd Godfrey, City Attorney. The approving opinion of Bond Counsel will be delivered with the Series 2025
Bonds. A copy of the form of the opinion of Bond Counsel is set forth in APPENDIX E of this Official Statement.

Litigation

          A non-litigation certificate issued by the City Attorney, dated the date of closing, will be provided stating,
among other things, that to the best of his knowledge, after due inquiry, no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry, or any
other litigation or investigation at law or in equity, before or by any court, public board or body, has been served on
the Authority or the City or is threatened, challenging the creation, organization, or existence of the Authority or the
City or the titles of its officers to their respective offices or seeking to restrain or enjoin the issuance, sale, or delivery
of the Series 2025 Bonds or for the purpose of restraining or enjoining the levy and collection of taxes by City, or
directly or indirectly contesting or affecting the proceedings or the authority by which the Series 2025 Bonds are
issued or the validity of the Series 2025 Bonds or the issuance thereof.

                                                     TAX MATTERS

          The following is a summary of the material federal and State of Utah income tax consequences of holding
and disposing of the Series 2025 Bonds. This summary is based upon laws, regulations, rulings and judicial decisions
now in effect, all of which are subject to change (possibly on a retroactive basis). This summary does not discuss all
aspects of federal income taxation that may be relevant to investors in light of their personal investment circumstances
or describe the tax consequences to certain types of owners subject to special treatment under the federal income tax
laws (for example, dealers in securities or other persons who do not hold the Series 2025 Bonds as a capital asset, tax-
exempt organizations, individual retirement accounts and other tax deferred accounts, and foreign taxpayers), and,
except for the income tax laws of the State of Utah, does not discuss the consequences to an owner under any state,
local or foreign tax laws. The summary does not deal with the tax treatment of persons who purchase the Series 2025
Bonds in the secondary market. Prospective investors are advised to consult their own tax advisors regarding federal,
state, local and other tax considerations of holding and disposing of the Series 2025 Bonds.

Opinion of Bond Counsel

         In the opinion of Gilmore & Bell, P.C., Bond Counsel to the City, under the law currently existing as of the
issue date of the Series 2025 Bonds:

         Federal Tax Exemption. The interest on the Series 2025 Bonds (including any original issue discount
properly allocable to an owner thereof) is excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes.

        Alternative Minimum Tax. Interest on the Series 2025 Bonds is not an item of tax preference for purposes of
computing the federal alternative minimum tax.

          Bond Counsel’s opinions are provided as of the date of the original issue of the Series 2025 Bonds, subject
to the condition that the Authority and the City comply with all requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (the “Code”) that must be satisfied subsequent to the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds in order that
interest thereon be, or continue to be, excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes. The Authority
and the City have covenanted to comply with all such requirements. Failure to comply with certain of such



4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                          33
requirements may cause the inclusion of interest on the Series 2025 Bonds in gross income for federal income tax
purposes retroactive to the date of issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds.

        State of Utah Tax Exemption. The interest on the Series 2025 Bonds is exempt from State of Utah individual
income taxes.

         Bond Counsel is expressing no opinion regarding other federal, state or local tax consequences arising with
respect to the Series 2025 Bonds but has reviewed the discussion under the heading “TAX MATTERS.”

Other Tax Consequences

          [Original Issue Discount. For federal income tax purposes, original issue discount is the excess of the stated
redemption price at maturity of a Series 2025 Bond over its issue price. The stated redemption price at maturity of a
Series 2025 Bond is the sum of all payments on the Series 2025 Bond other than “qualified stated interest” (i.e.,
interest unconditionally payable at least annually at a single fixed rate). The issue price of a Series 2025 Bond is
generally the first price at which a substantial amount of the Series 2025 Bonds of that maturity have been sold to the
public. Under Section 1288 of the Code, original issue discount on tax-exempt bonds accrues on a compound basis.
The amount of original issue discount that accrues to an owner of a Series 2025 Bond during any accrual period
generally equals (1) the issue price of that Series 2025 Bond, plus the amount of original issue discount accrued in all
prior accrual periods, multiplied by (2) the yield to maturity on that Series 2025 Bond (determined on the basis of
compounding at the close of each accrual period and properly adjusted for the length of the accrual period), minus (3)
any interest payable on that Series 2025 Bond during that accrual period. The amount of original issue discount
accrued in a particular accrual period will be considered to be received ratably on each day of the accrual period, will
be excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and will increase the owner’s tax basis in that Series
2025 Bond. Prospective investors should consult their own tax advisors concerning the calculation and accrual of
original issue discount.]

          [Original Issue Premium. For federal income tax purposes, premium is the excess of the issue price of a
Series 2025 Bond over its stated redemption price at maturity. The stated redemption price at maturity of a Series
2025 Bond is the sum of all payments on the Series 2025 Bond other than “qualified stated interest” (i.e., interest
unconditionally payable at least annually at a single fixed rate). The issue price of a Series 2025 Bond is generally
the first price at which a substantial amount of the Series 2025 Bonds of that maturity have been sold to the public.
Under Section 171 of the Code, premium on tax-exempt bonds amortizes over the term of the Series 2025 Bond using
constant yield principles, based on the purchaser’s yield to maturity. As premium is amortized, the owner’s basis in
the Series 2025 Bond and the amount of tax-exempt interest received will be reduced by the amount of amortizable
premium properly allocable to the owner, which will result in an increase in the gain (or decrease in the loss) to be
recognized for federal income tax purposes on sale or disposition of the Series 2025 Bond prior to its maturity. Even
though the owner’s basis is reduced, no federal income tax deduction is allowed. Prospective investors should consult
their own tax advisors concerning the calculation and accrual of bond premium.]

          Sale, Exchange, or Retirement of Series 2025 Bonds. Upon the sale, exchange, or retirement (including
redemption) of a Series 2025 Bond, an owner of the Series 2025 Bond generally will recognize gain or loss in an
amount equal to the difference between the amount of cash and the fair market value of any property actually or
constructively received on the sale, exchange, or retirement of the Series 2025 Bond (other than in respect of accrued
and unpaid interest) and such owner’s adjusted tax basis in the Series 2025 Bond. To the extent a Series 2025 Bond
is held as a capital asset, such gain or loss will be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss if the
Series 2025 Bond has been held for more than 12 months at the time of sale, exchange or retirement.

         Reporting Requirements. In general, information reporting requirements will apply to certain payments of
principal, interest and premium paid on the Series 2025 Bonds, and to the proceeds paid on the sale of the Series 2025
Bonds, other than certain exempt recipients (such as corporations and foreign entities). A backup withholding tax will
apply to such payments if the owner fails to provide a taxpayer identification number or certification of foreign or
other exempt status or fails to report in full dividend and interest income. The amount of any backup withholding
from a payment to an owner will be allowed as a credit against the owner’s federal income tax liability.




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                        34
          Collateral Federal Income Tax Consequences. Prospective purchasers of the Series 2025 Bonds should be
aware that ownership of the Series 2025 Bonds may result in collateral federal income tax consequences to certain
taxpayers, including, without limitation, certain applicable corporations subject to the corporate alternative minimum
tax, financial institutions, property and casualty insurance companies, individual recipients of Social Security or
Railroad Retirement benefits, certain S corporations with “excess net passive income,” foreign corporations subject
to the branch profits tax, life insurance companies, and taxpayers who may be deemed to have incurred or continued
indebtedness to purchase or carry or have paid or incurred certain expenses allocable to the Series 2025 Bonds. Bond
Counsel expresses no opinion regarding these tax consequences. Purchasers of Series 2025 Bonds should consult
their tax advisors as to the applicability of these tax consequences and other federal income tax consequences of the
purchase, ownership and disposition of the Series 2025 Bonds, including the possible application of state, local,
foreign and other tax laws.

          Bond Counsel notes that interest on the Series 2025 Bonds may be included in adjusted financial statement
income of applicable corporations for purposes of determining the applicability and amount of the federal corporate
alternative minimum tax.

                                               MUNICIPAL ADVISOR

         The City has entered into an agreement with LRB Public Finance Advisors, Inc., Salt Lake City, Utah (the
“Municipal Advisor”), whereunder the Municipal Advisor provides financial recommendations and guidance to the
City with respect to timing of sale, market conditions, costs of issuance and other factors relating to the sale of the
Series 2025 Bonds. The Municipal Advisor has read and participated in the drafting of this Official Statement. The
Municipal Advisor has not audited, authenticated or otherwise verified the information set forth in the Official
Statement, or any other related information available to the City, with respect to accuracy and completeness of
disclosure of such information, and no guaranty, warranty or other representation is made by the Municipal Advisor
respecting accuracy and completeness of the Official Statement or any other matters related to the Official Statement.
Municipal Advisor fees are contingent upon the sale and delivery of the Series 2025 Bonds.

                                                   UNDERWRITING

          [Underwriter], as underwriter of the Series 2025 Bonds (the “Underwriter”), has agreed, subject to certain
conditions, to purchase all of the Series 2025 Bonds from the Authority at an aggregate price of $__________
(representing the aggregate principal amount of the Series 2025 Bonds, plus a [net] reoffering premium of
$__________ and less an Underwriter’s discount of $__________). The Underwriter has advised the City that the
Series 2025 Bonds may be offered and sold to certain dealers at prices lower than the initial public offering prices set
forth on the cover of this Official Statement and that such public offering prices may be changed from time to time.

         The Underwriter and its respective affiliates are full-service financial institutions engaged in various activities
that may include securities trading, commercial and investment banking, municipal advisory, brokerage, and asset
management. In the ordinary course of business, the Underwriter and its respective affiliates may actively trade debt
and, if applicable, equity securities (or related derivative securities) and provide financial instruments (which may
include bank loans, credit support or interest rate swaps). The Underwriter and its respective affiliates may engage in
transactions for its own accounts involving the securities and instruments made the subject of this securities offering
or other offering of the Authority. The Underwriter and its respective affiliates may make a market in credit default
swaps with respect to municipal securities in the future. The Underwriter and its respective affiliates may also
communicate independent investment recommendations, market color or trading ideas and publish independent
research views in respect of this securities offering or other offerings of the Authority.

          Although the Underwriter expects to maintain a secondary market in the Series 2025 Bonds after the initial
offering, no guarantee can be given concerning the future existence of such a secondary market or its maintenance by
the Underwriter or others.




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                        35
                                                    BOND RATING

          [__________] (“_____”) has assigned a rating of [“_____”] to the Series 2025 Bonds. Any explanation of
the significance of this rating should be obtained from the rating agency furnishing the same. There is no assurance
that the ratings given to outstanding obligations will be maintained for any period of time or that the ratings may not
be lowered or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their judgment, circumstances so warrant. Any such
downward change or withdrawal of such ratings may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Series 2025
Bonds.

                                            CONTINUING DISCLOSURE

          The City, on behalf of the Authority, has undertaken for the benefit of the Bondholders and the beneficial
owners of the Series 2025 Bonds to provide certain annual financial information and operating data to the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board (“MSRB”), and to provide notice of certain material events to the MSRB all in order to
assist the Underwriter in complying with Rule 15c2-12(b)(5) of the Securities and Exchange Commission. See
APPENDIX D attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference for a form of the Continuing Disclosure
Undertaking that will be executed and delivered by the City.

         A failure by the City to comply with the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking will not constitute a default
under the Indenture and beneficial owners of the Series 2025 Bonds are limited to the remedies described in the
Continuing Disclosure Undertaking.           See “APPENDIX D—FORM OF CONTINUING DISCLOSURE
UNDERTAKING—Default.” A failure by the City to comply with the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking must be
reported in accordance with the Rule and must be considered by any broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer
before recommending the purchase or sale of the Series 2025 Bonds in the secondary market. Consequently, such a
failure may adversely affect the transferability and liquidity of the Series 2025 Bonds and their market price.

                                                  MISCELLANEOUS

Independent Accountants

          The basic financial statements of the City as of June 30, 2024, and for the year then ended, contained in
APPENDIX A to this Official Statement, have been audited by HBME, LLC (“HBME”), independent accountants, as
set forth in their report included in APPENDIX A to this Official Statement. HBME has not been asked to consent to
the use of its name and audited financial report of the City for fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 in this Official Statement.

Additional Information

         All quotations from and summaries and explanations of the Utah Constitution, statutes, programs, laws of
the State of Utah, court decisions, and the Indenture, which are contained herein, do not purport to be complete, and
reference is made to said Constitution, statutes, programs, laws, court decisions, and the Indenture for full and
complete statements of their respective provisions.

         This Preliminary Official Statement is in a form “deemed final” by the Authority and the City for purposes
of Rule 15c2-12 of the Securities and Exchange Commission.

         Any statement in this Official Statement involving matters of opinion, whether or not expressly so stated, is
intended as such and not as representations of fact.

         The appendices attached hereto are an integral part of this Official Statement, and should be read in
conjunction with the foregoing material.




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                        36
         The delivery of the Official Statement has been duly authorized by the Authority and the City.

                                                              LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF CITY OF
                                                              HOLLADAY, UTAH


                                                              CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                     37
                                        APPENDIX A

                       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH
                              FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2024




                                            A-1
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
                                                     APPENDIX B

                       EXTRACTS OF THE INDENTURE AND THE MASTER LEASE

          The following extracts briefly outline certain provisions contained in the Indenture, the Master Lease and the
Security Documents and are not to be considered as a full statement of the Indenture, the Master Lease and the Security
Documents. Reference is made to the Indenture, the Master Lease and the Security Documents for full details of all
of the terms of such documents, of the Series 2025 Bonds, the security provisions appertaining of the Indenture, the
application of the Base Rentals and the definition of any terms used but not defined in this Official Statement.

                                                  THE INDENTURE

Definitions

         “Additional Bonds” means all Bonds (other than the Initial Bonds) issued under the Indenture.

          “Authority Representative” means the Chair/President and Secretary-Treasurer of the Authority, and any
other person or persons at any time designated to act on behalf of the Authority for purposes of performing any act on
behalf of the Authority with respect to a Project by a written certificate furnished to the City and the Trustee containing
the specimen signature of such person or persons and signed on behalf of the Authority by any duly authorized officer
of the Authority. Such certificate may designate an alternate or alternates. The Authority Representative may be an
officer or employee of the Authority or the City.

        “Base Rentals” means that portion of the rentals payable under the Master Lease which is pledged to the
payment of debt service on the Bonds and to the replenishment of the Debt Service Reserve Fund under the Indenture.

         “Bond Documents” means the Master Lease, the Security Documents and the Indenture.

        “Bond Fund” means Local Building Authority of City of Holladay, Utah, Bond Fund established under the
Indenture.

        “Bond Registrar” means the Trustee (or other party designated as Registrar by Supplemental Indenture),
appointed as the initial registrar for the Bonds pursuant to the Indenture, and any additional or successor registrar
appointed pursuant hereto.

         “Bondholder,” “Holder,” “Owner” or “Registered Owner” means the person or persons in whose name or
names a Bond shall be registered on the books of the Bond Registrar kept for that purpose in accordance with
provisions of the Indenture.

        “Bonds” means (i) the Initial Bonds, (ii) any Refunding Bonds issued pursuant to the Indenture and (iii) any
Additional Bonds issued pursuant to the Indenture.

         “Chair/President” means the Chair/President (including any acting Chair/President) of the Authority.

         “City Representative” means the Mayor, City Manager, and City Recorder of the City and any other person
at any time designated to act on behalf of the City for purposes of performing any act with respect to a Project by a
written certificate furnished to the Authority and the Trustee containing the specimen signature of such person and
signed on behalf of the City or any duly authorized officer thereof. Such certificate may designate an alternate or
alternates. The City Representative may be an officer or employee of the Authority or the City.

         “Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

         “Construction Fund” means Local Building Authority of City of Holladay, Utah, Construction Fund
established under the Indenture.




                                                           B-1
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
          “Cross-over Date” means with respect to Cross-over Refunding Bonds the date on which the Principal portion
of the related Cross-over Refunded Bonds is to be paid or redeemed from the proceeds of such Cross-over Refunding
Bonds.

         “Cross-over Refunded Bonds” means Bonds or other obligations refunded by Cross-over Refunding Bonds.

          “Cross-over Refunding Bonds” means Bonds issued for the purpose of refunding Bonds or other obligations
if the proceeds of such Cross-over Refunding Bonds are irrevocably deposited in escrow in satisfaction of the
requirements of Section 11-27-3, Utah Code, to secure the payment on an applicable redemption date or maturity date
of the Cross-over Refunded Bonds (subject to possible use to pay Principal of the Cross-over Refunding Bonds under
certain circumstances) and the earnings on such escrow deposit are required to be applied to pay interest on the Cross-
over Refunding Bonds until the Cross-over Date.

        “Debt Service Reserve Fund” means the Local Building Authority of City of Holladay, Utah, Debt Service
Reserve Fund established under the Indenture for the purpose of securing payment of Bonds issued under the
Indenture.

          “Debt Service Reserve Requirement” means with respect to each Series of Bonds issued pursuant to the
Indenture, unless otherwise provided in the related Supplemental Indenture, an amount equal to the least of (i) 10%
of the proceeds of such Series of Bonds determined on the basis of original principal amount (unless original issue
premium or original issue discount exceeds 2% of original principal, then determined on the basis of initial purchase
price to the public), (ii) the maximum annual debt service during any year for such Series of Bonds and (iii) 125% of
the average annual debt service for such Series of Bonds; provided, however, that in the event any Series of Refunding
Bonds is issued to refund only a portion and not all of the then Outstanding Bonds of any Series issued pursuant to
the Indenture (the “Prior Bonds”), then the portion of such Series of Prior Bonds that remain Outstanding immediately
after the issuance of such Refunding Bonds and the portion of such Refunding Bonds that is allocable to the refunding
of such Series of Prior Bonds may be combined and treated as a single Series for purpose of determining the Debt
Service Reserve Requirement relating to such combined Series and the resulting requirement shall be allocated among
the two Series pro rata based upon the total principal amount remaining Outstanding for each Series. Each account of
the Debt Service Reserve Fund shall only be used with respect to the related Series of Bonds.

         “Deeds of Trust” means all Deeds and Leasehold Deeds of Trust entered into with respect to each Project
financed pursuant to the terms of the Indenture.

          “Direct Obligations” means direct noncallable obligations of (including obligations issued or held in book-
entry form on the books of) the Department of the Treasury of the United States of America, obligations
unconditionally guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States of America and evidences of ownership
interests in such direct or unconditionally guaranteed obligations.

         “Direct Payments” means the interest subsidy payments received by the Authority from the Internal Revenue
Service pursuant to Section 6431 and 1400U-2 of the Code or other similar programs (with respect to Bonds issued
hereunder).

         “Event of Default” means any occurrence or event specified in and defined by the Indenture.

         “General Indenture” means the General Indenture of Trust, by and between the Authority and the Trustee.

         “Indenture” means the General Indenture and any Supplemental Indentures entered into in compliance with
the provisions of the Indenture.

         “Initial Bonds” means the first Series of Bonds issued under the Indenture.

         “Interest Payment Date” means the stated payment date of an installment of interest on the Bonds.

         “Investment Obligations” means any of the following securities:



                                                         B-2
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
                  (i)      Direct Obligations;

                 (ii)      Obligations of any of the following federal agencies which obligations represent full faith
         and credit obligations of the United States of America: the Export-Import Bank of the United States; the
         Government National Mortgage Association; the Federal Financing Bank; the Farmer’s Home
         Administration; the Federal Housing Administration; the Maritime Administration: General Services
         Administration, Small Business Administration; or the Department of Housing and Urban Development
         (PHA’s);

                  (iii)    Money market funds rated at the time of purchase “AAAm” or “AAAm-G” or better by
         S&P, including money market funds from which the Trustee or its affiliates receive fees for investment,
         advisory or other services to the fund;

                 (iv)    Commercial paper which is rated at the time of purchase in the single highest classification,
         P-1 by Moody’s or A-1+ by S&P, and which matures not more than 270 days after the date of purchase;

                (v)     Bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness rated at the time of purchase “AAA” by
         S&P and “Aaa” by Moody’s issued by the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan
         Mortgage Corporation with remaining maturities not exceeding three years;

                  (vi)     U.S. dollar denominated deposit accounts, federal funds and banker’s acceptances with
         domestic commercial banks which have a rating on their short-term certificates of deposit on the date of
         purchase of “A-1” or “A-1+” by S&P and “P-1” by Moody’s and maturing no more than 360 days after the
         date of purchase (ratings on holding companies are not considered as the rating of the bank);

                  (vii)    The fund held by the Treasurer for the State of Utah and commonly known as the Utah
         State Public Treasurer’s Investment Fund; and

                (viii) Any investments or securities permitted for investment of public funds under the State
         Money Management Act of 1974, Title 51, Chapter 7, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended.

         “Master Lease” means the Master Lease Agreement dated as of [Closing Month] 1, 2025, by and between
the Authority, as lessor and the City, as lessee and any amendments and supplements thereto entered into in accordance
with the Indenture.

         “Moody’s” means Moody’s Investors Service, its successors and assigns, and, if such corporation shall no
longer perform the functions of a securities rating agency, “Moody’s” shall be deemed to refer to any other nationally
recognized securities rating agency designated by the Authority.

         “Outstanding” or “Bonds Outstanding” means all Bonds which have been authenticated and delivered by the
Trustee under the Indenture, except:

                 (a)      Bonds delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, whether after purchase in the open market
         or because of payment at, or redemption prior to, maturity;

                  (b)      Bonds in lieu of which others have been authenticated under the Indenture; and

                  (c)      Bonds deemed paid under the General Indenture.

        “Paying Agent” means the Trustee, appointed as the initial paying agent for the Bonds pursuant to the
Indenture, and any additional or successor paying agent appointed pursuant hereto.

         “Project” or “Projects” means collectively each Project identified in a Supplemental Indenture to be financed
or refinanced with a Series of Bonds issued under the Indenture.




                                                         B-3
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
         “Rebatable Arbitrage” shall mean with respect to any Series of Bonds the amount (determinable as of each
Rebate Calculation Date) of rebatable arbitrage payable to the United States at the times and in the amounts specified
in Section 148(f)(3) of the Code and Section 1.148-3 of the Regulations.

        “Rebate Calculation Date” means, with respect to each Series of Tax-Exempt Bonds, the Interest Payment
Date next preceding the fifth anniversary of the issue date of such Series of Bonds, each fifth anniversary of the initial
Rebate Calculation Date for such Series of Bonds, and the date of retirement of the last Bond of such Series.

        “Rebate Fund” means Local Building Authority of City of Holladay, Utah, Rebate Fund established by the
Indenture.

         “Recovery Zone Bonds” means interest subsidy bonds issuable by the Authority under Sections 1400U-2 and
6431 of the Code and a “qualified bond” under Section 1400U-2(a) of the Code or such other tax credit bonds of
substantially similar nature which may be hereafter authorized.

         “Refunding Bonds” means all Bonds (other than the Initial Bonds) issued pursuant to the Indenture.

        “Regular Record Date” means the fifteenth day (whether or not a Business Day, as this term is defined in the
Master Lease) next preceding each Interest Payment Date.

         “Regulations” and all references thereto shall mean and include applicable final, proposed and temporary
United States Treasury Regulations, promulgated with respect to Sections 103 and 141 through 150 of the Code,
including all amendments thereto made hereafter.

        “Required Rebate Deposit” means, with respect to any Series of Bonds an amount determinable as of each
Rebate Calculation Date, which when added to amounts then on deposit in the Rebate Fund with respect to such Series
of Bonds, if any, equals the aggregate amount of Rebatable Arbitrage for such Series of Bonds less the amount of
Rebatable Arbitrage theretofore paid to the United States with respect to such Series of Bonds, if any.

          “Reserve Instrument” means a device or instrument issued by a Reserve Instrument Provider to satisfy all or
any portion of the Debt Service Reserve Requirement. The term “Reserve Instrument” includes, by way of example
and not of limitation, letters of credit, bond insurance policies, surety bonds, standby bond purchase agreements, lines
of credit and other devices.

         “Reserve Instrument Agreement” means any agreement entered into by the Authority and a Reserve
Instrument Provider pursuant to a Supplemental Indenture and providing for the issuance by such Reserve Instrument
Provider of a Reserve Instrument.

        “Reserve Instrument Costs” means all fees, premiums, expenses and similar costs, other than Reserve
Instrument Repayment Obligations, required to be paid to a Reserve Instrument Provider pursuant to a Reserve
Instrument Agreement.

          “Reserve Instrument Coverage” means, as of any date of calculation, the aggregate amount available to be
paid to the Trustee pursuant hereto under all Reserve Instruments.

         “Reserve Instrument Fund” means the Local Building Authority of City of Holladay, Utah Reserve
Instrument Fund established by the General Indenture to be held by the Trustee and administered pursuant to the
General Indenture.

         “Reserve Instrument Limit” means, as of any date of calculation and with respect to any Reserve Instrument,
the maximum aggregate amount available to be paid under such Reserve Instrument into an account in the Debt
Service Reserve Fund assuming for purposes of such calculation that the amount initially available under each Reserve
Instrument has not been reduced or that the amount initially available under each Reserve Instrument has only been
reduced as a result of the reduction of the Debt Service Reserve Requirement.




                                                           B-4
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
         “Reserve Instrument Provider” means any bank, savings and loan association, savings bank, thrift institution,
credit union, insurance company, surety company or other institution issuing a Reserve Instrument.

        “Reserve Instrument Repayment Obligations” means, as of any date of calculation and with respect to any
Reserve Instrument Agreement, those outstanding amounts payable by the Authority under such Reserve Instrument
Agreement to repay the Reserve Instrument Provider for payments previously made by it pursuant to a Reserve
Instrument. There shall not be included in the calculation of Reserve Instrument Repayment Obligations any Reserve
Instrument Costs.

         “S&P” means S&P Global Ratings, its successors and assigns, and, if such entity shall no longer perform the
functions of a securities rating agency, “S&P” shall be deemed to refer to any other nationally recognized securities
rating agency designated by the Authority, with the approval of the Trustee.

         “Secretary-Treasurer” means the Secretary-Treasurer (including any deputy or acting Secretary-Treasurer)
of the Authority.

       “Security Documents” means, collectively, the Deeds of Trust and the security documents described in each
Supplemental Indenture.

         “Security Instrument” means an instrument or other device issued by a Security Instrument Issuer to pay, or
to provide security or liquidity for, a Series of Bonds. The term “Security Instrument” includes, by way of example
and not of limitation, letters of credit, bond insurance policies, standby bond purchase agreements, lines of credit and
other security instruments and credit enhancement or liquidity devices (but does not include a Reserve Instrument);
provided, however, that no such device or instrument shall be a “Security Instrument” for purposes of this Indenture
unless specifically so designated in a Supplemental Indenture authorizing the use of such device or instrument.

        “Security Instrument Agreement” means any agreement entered into by the Authority and a Security
Instrument Issuer pursuant to a Supplemental Indenture (including the applicable portions of a Supplemental
Indenture) providing for the issuance by such Security Instrument Issuer of a Security Instrument.

         “Security Instrument Costs” means, with respect to any Security Instrument, all fees, premiums, expenses
and similar costs, other than Security Instrument Repayment Obligations, required to be paid to a Security Instrument
Issuer pursuant to a Security Instrument Agreement or the Supplemental Indenture authorizing the use of such Security
Instrument. Such Security Instrument Agreement or Supplemental Indenture shall specify any fees, premiums,
expenses, and costs constituting Security Instrument Costs.

      “Security Instrument Issuer” means any bank or other financial institution, insurance company, Surety
Company or other institution issuing a Security Instrument.

         “Security Instrument Repayment Obligations” means, as of any date of calculation and with respect to any
Security Instrument Agreement, any outstanding amounts payable by the Authority under the Security Instrument
Agreement or the Supplemental Indenture authorizing the use of such Security Instrument to repay the Security
Instrument Issuer for payments previously or concurrently made by the Security Instrument Issuer pursuant to a
Security Instrument. There shall not be included in the calculation of the amount of Security Instrument Repayment
Obligations any Security Instrument Costs.

         “Serial Bonds” means those Bonds other than Term Bonds.

         “Series” means all of the Bonds authenticated and delivered on original issuance and identified pursuant to
the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Bonds as a separate Series of Bonds, and any Bonds thereafter
authenticated and delivered in lieu thereof or in substitution therefor.

         “Sinking Fund Account” means Local Building Authority of City of Holladay, Utah, Sinking Fund Account
of the Bond Fund established by the Indenture.




                                                          B-5
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
        “Sinking Fund Installment” means the amount of money which is required to be deposited into the Sinking
Fund Account in each year as specified in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing Term Bonds for the retirement of
such Term Bonds (whether at maturity or by redemption), and including the redemption premium, if any.

         “Special Record Date” means such date as may be fixed for the payment of defaulted interest on the Bonds
in accordance with the General Indenture.

         “State” means the State of Utah.

         “Supplemental Indenture” means any indenture between the Authority and the Trustee entered into pursuant
to and in compliance with the provisions of the Indenture.

         “Tax Credit Bonds” means the interest subsidy bonds issuable by the Authority under Sections 54AA and
6431 of the Code and a “qualified bond” under Section 54AA(g)(2) of the Code or such other tax credit bonds of
substantially similar nature which may be hereafter authorized.

          “Tax-Exempt Bonds” means Bonds the interest on which is intended to be excludable from gross income for
federal income tax purposes.

       “Term Bonds” means the Bonds which shall be subject to retirement by operation of mandatory sinking fund
payments or redemptions from the Sinking Fund Account.

         “Trust Estate” means the property conveyed to the Trustee pursuant to the Granting Clauses thereof.

          “Trustee” means [__________], a national banking association and its successors and any association
resulting from or surviving any consolidation or merger to which it or its successors may be a party and any successor
trustee at the time serving as successor trustee under the Indenture.

Indenture to Constitute Contract

         In consideration of the purchase and acceptance from time to time of any and all of the Bonds authorized to
be issued under the Indenture by the Registered Owners thereof, and the issuance from time to time of any and all
Reserve Instruments by Reserve Instrument Providers and all Security Instruments by Security Instrument Issuers
pursuant thereto, the Indenture shall be deemed to be and shall constitute a contract between the Authority and the
Owners from time to time of the Bonds; the Security Instrument Issuers and the Reserve Instrument Providers and the
pledge made in the Indenture and the covenants and agreements set forth therein to be performed by or on behalf of
the Authority shall be for FIRST, the equal benefit, protection and security of the Owners of any and all of the Bonds
all of which, regardless of the time or times of their authentication and delivery or maturity, shall be of equal rank
without preference, priority or distinction of any of the Bonds over any other thereof, except as expressly provided in
or permitted by the Indenture, and SECOND, for the equal benefit, protection and security of the Reserve Instrument
Providers of any and all of the Reserve Instruments which, regardless of the time or times of their issuance, delivery
or termination, shall be of equal rank without preference, priority or distinction of any Reserve Instrument over any
other thereof.

Limited Obligation

         The Bonds shall not be general obligations but shall be special, limited obligations of the Authority payable
solely out of and to the extent available from the Base Rentals, and, if paid by the City, the Purchase Option Price
under the Master Lease and other amounts derived from the leasing of the Projects (except to the extent paid out of
moneys attributable to the proceeds derived from the sale of the Bonds or to income from the temporary investment
thereof and, under certain circumstances, to moneys held in funds or accounts by the Trustee, to Net Proceeds from
insurance policies, performance bonds, condemnation awards and liquidation proceeds with respect to the Projects
and from Direct Payments) and shall be a valid claim of the respective Bondholders thereof only against the Bond
Fund, the Debt Service Reserve Fund and other moneys held by the Trustee and the Base Rentals, and other amounts
derived from the leasing of the Projects under the Master Lease, which Base Rentals and other amounts are hereby



                                                         B-6
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
pledged, assigned and otherwise secured for the equal and ratable payment of the Bonds and shall be used for no other
purpose than to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds (including any make whole interest
payments or redemption premiums on any Bonds), except as may be otherwise expressly authorized in the Indenture
or in the Master Lease. The Authority shall not be obligated to pay the principal of such Bonds or the interest thereon
or other costs incident thereto except from the moneys pledged therefor under the Indenture. The Bonds and the
interest thereon shall never constitute an indebtedness of the City within the meaning of any constitutional limitation
or statutory provision and shall not constitute or give rise to a pecuniary liability of the City or a charge against the
general credit or taxing power of the City. Neither the City, nor the Authority on its behalf, has pledged the credit of
the City to the payment of the Bonds, the interest thereon or amounts due or to become due under the Master Lease.
The City shall not be obligated to appropriate City Funds for the purpose of paying Base Rentals, Additional Rentals
or the Purchase Option Price under the Master Lease, and no judgment may be entered against the City in the event
of an insufficiency of moneys to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds. The payment
obligations of the City under the Master Lease are subject to annual renewal and will be terminated upon the
occurrence of an Event of Nonappropriation. In such event, all payments from the City under the Master Lease will
terminate, and the Bonds and the interest thereon will be payable solely from and to the extent of such moneys, if any,
as may be held by the Trustee under the Indenture (except amounts held for the payment of Bonds not deemed
Outstanding) and, subject to the provisions of Article IX of the Indenture, any moneys made available from a
liquidation of the Authority’s interest in the Project financed with such Bonds subsequent to foreclosure of the lien of
the Indenture and the Security Documents. No deficiency judgment subsequent to foreclosure of the lien of the
Indenture and the Security Documents may be entered against the City or the Authority, and no breach of any provision
of the Master Lease, the Security Documents or the Indenture shall impose any general obligation or liability upon or
a charge against the City, the Authority or upon the general credit or taxing powers of the City. Except as expressly
provided in the Master Lease, no judgment requiring a payment of money may be entered against the City under the
Master Lease.

Subordination of Master Lease to Indenture

         As provided in the Indenture, pursuant to the Master Lease, the City’s interest in the Projects and its interest
as lessee under the Master Lease shall at all times be subject to the lien of the Indenture; provided, however, that so
long as no Event of Default under the Indenture or an Event of Nonappropriation has occurred and is then continuing,
the Master Lease shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding such subordination, and the City shall not be
disturbed by the Authority or the Trustee in its possession, use and enjoyment of the Projects during the term of the
Master Lease or in the enjoyment of its rights under the Master Lease; provided further that the Indenture and the
rights and privileges thereunder of the Trustee and Bondholders are specifically made subject and subordinate to the
rights and privileges of the City set forth in the Master Lease to exercise its option to purchase the Projects in the event
of, and subsequent to, the occurrence of an Event of Default, but prior to the liquidation of the Authority’s interest in
the Projects. As a condition of the exercise of such option, the City under the Master Lease must pay, in addition to
the Purchase Option Price, any interest payment deficiencies accruing from the date of the Event of Default or Event
of Nonappropriation. The Trustee agrees that it shall execute and deliver any instrument necessary or appropriate at
any time to confirm, evidence or enable the City to enjoy such rights and privileges, including without limitation,
those referred to in the Indenture.

Nonpresentation of Bonds

          Unless otherwise provided by Supplemental Indenture, in the event any Bond shall not be presented for
payment when the principal thereof becomes due, either at maturity or otherwise, or at the date fixed for redemption
thereof, if funds sufficient to pay such Bond shall have been made available to the Trustee, all liability of the Authority
to the Registered Owner thereof for the payment of such Bond shall forthwith cease, determine and be completely
discharged, and thereupon it shall be the duty of the Trustee to hold such fund or funds, without liability to the
Registered Owner of such Bond for interest thereon, for the benefit of the Registered Owner of such Bond who shall
thereafter be restricted exclusively to such fund or funds for any claim of whatever nature on his part under the
Indenture or on, or with respect to, said Bond. If any Bond shall not be presented for payment within four years
following the date when such Bond becomes due, whether by maturity or otherwise, the Trustee shall, to the extent
permitted by law, repay to the Authority the funds theretofore held by it for payment of such Bond, and such Bond
shall, subject to the defense of any applicable statute of limitation, thereafter be an unsecured obligation of the
Authority, and the Registered Owner thereof shall be entitled to look only to the Authority for payment, and then only


                                                            B-7
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
to the extent of the amount so repaid, and the Authority shall not be liable for any interest thereon and shall not be
regarded as a trustee of such money. The provisions of the Indenture with respect to the nonpresentation of bonds are
subject to the provisions of Title 67, Chapter 4a, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended.

General Covenants

          Payment of Principal and Premium, if any, and Interest. The Authority covenants that it will promptly pay
the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on every Bond issued under the Indenture at the place, on the dates
and in the manner provided therein and in the Bonds according to the true intent and meaning thereof, but solely from
the Trust Estate created by the Indenture, including the Base Rentals and, if paid by the City under the Master Lease,
the Purchase Option Price with respect to a Project or Projects, and other amounts pledged therefor which are from
time to time held by the Trustee in the Bond Fund and the Debt Service Reserve Fund. The principal of and premium,
if any, and interest on the Bonds are payable solely from the Trust Estate created by the Indenture, including the Base
Rentals and, if paid by the City under the Master Lease, the Purchase Option Price with respect to a Project or Projects,
and other amounts derived from the lease of the Projects and otherwise as provided in the Indenture, in the Security
Documents, and in the Master Lease, which amounts are specifically pledged by the Indenture to the payment thereof
in the manner and to the extent in the Indenture and in the Master Lease specified, and nothing in the Bonds or in the
Indenture shall be construed as pledging any other funds or assets of the Authority or the City. The Authority shall in
no event be liable for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on any of the Bonds or for the
performance of any pledge, obligation or agreement undertaken by the Authority except to the extent that the moneys,
properties, interests and assets constituting the Trust Estate are sufficient therefor.

          Further Assurances. The Authority will, at the City’s expense, do, execute, acknowledge and deliver all and
every act, deed, conveyance, transfer and assurance necessary or proper for the perfection of the lien and security
interest being provided in the Indenture for in the Trust Estate, whether now owned or held or hereafter acquired,
including, but not limited to, such financing statements and continuation statements as shall be necessary under
applicable law to perfect and maintain the security interest being provided in the Indenture for in the Trust Estate.

         Actions with Respect to the Trust Estate. The Authority will not:

         (a)      Declare a default or exercise the remedies of the seller or lessor, as the case may be, under, or
terminate, modify or accept a surrender of, or offer or agree to any termination, waiver, modification or surrender of,
the Master Lease (except as otherwise expressly provided in the Indenture) or by affirmative act consent to the creation
or existence of any lien or encumbrance (other than the security interest and lien of the Indenture and the Security
Documents) to secure the payment of indebtedness upon the leasehold or other estate created by the Master Lease or
any part of any thereof; or

         (b)       Receive or collect or permit the receipt or collection of any payment under the Master Lease prior
to the date for the payment thereof provided for by the Master Lease or assign, transfer or hypothecate (other than to
the Trustee under the Indenture) any revenues or other payment then due or to accrue in the future under the Master
Lease in respect of the Projects; or

          (c)       Sell, mortgage, transfer, assign or hypothecate (other than to the Trustee under the Indenture) its
interest in the Projects or any part thereof or interest therein or in any amount to be received by it from the disposition
of the Projects except as provided under the Indenture, and except as provided in the Master Lease and the Security
Documents.

          Power of Attorney in Respect of the Master Lease. The Authority irrevocably constitutes and appoints the
Trustee its true and lawful attorney with an interest and full power of substitution, for it and in its name, place and
stead (a) to ask, demand, collect, receive and receipt for any and all rents, income and other sums which are assigned
under the Granting Clauses of the Indenture, and (b) without limiting the provisions of the foregoing clause (a) hereof,
during the continuance of any Event of Default under the Indenture, to exercise any remedies available under the
Master Lease and the Security Documents as fully as the Authority could itself do, and to perform all other necessary
or appropriate acts with respect to any such remedies, and in its discretion to file any claim or take any other action or
proceedings, either in its own name or in the name of the Authority or otherwise, which the Trustee may deem
necessary or appropriate to protect and preserve the right, title and interest of the Trustee (but only to the extent


                                                           B-8
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
specifically provided in the Indenture) in the Master Lease and to the Base Rentals, the Additional Rentals, the
Purchase Option Price, the Net Proceeds and all other amounts payable under the Master Lease and other sums and
the security intended to be afforded under the Indenture, whether or not the Authority is in default thereunder.

Use of Bond Fund

                   (a)      There shall be deposited into the Bond Fund all accrued interest received, if any, at the
         time of the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds. In addition, there shall be deposited into the Bond Fund,
         as and when received, (i) any amount directed to be paid into the Bond Fund pursuant to the Master Lease or
         any amount in the Debt Service Reserve Fund directed to be paid into the Bond Fund in accordance with the
         provisions of the Indenture; (ii) any Net Proceeds of any insurance policy, performance bond or
         condemnation award to be deposited in the Bond Fund pursuant to the Master Lease; (iii) all Base Rentals,
         and, if paid by the City, that portion of the Purchase Option Price attributable to the retirement of the
         applicable Series of Bonds issued under the Indenture, as specified in the Master Lease; and (iv) any Direct
         Payments and all other moneys received by the Trustee under and pursuant to any of the provisions of the
         Indenture or of the Master Lease which are required or which are accompanied by directions that such moneys
         are to be paid into the Bond Fund. The Authority hereby covenants and agrees that so long as any of the
         Bonds issued under the Indenture are Outstanding it will deposit, or cause to be paid to the Trustee for deposit
         in the Bond Fund for its account, any moneys which are pledged under the Indenture for the payment of the
         principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds and which are required to be deposited into the
         Bond Fund.

                 (b)      Except as provided in the Indenture, moneys in the Bond Fund shall be used solely for the
         payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds and for the redemption of the
         Bonds prior to maturity.

                  (c)      The Bond Fund shall be in the custody of the Trustee but in the name of the Authority, and
         the Authority hereby authorizes and directs the Trustee to withdraw sufficient funds from the Bond Fund to
         pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds as the same become due and payable,
         which authorization and direction the Trustee hereby accepts.

Use of Sinking Fund

                  (a)      As required by Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee shall apply moneys in the Sinking
         Fund Account to the retirement of any Term Bonds required to be retired by operation of the Sinking Fund
         Account under the provisions of and in accordance with the Supplemental Indenture authorizing the issuance
         of such Term Bonds, either by redemption in accordance with such Supplemental Indenture or, at the
         direction of the Authority, purchase of such Term Bonds in the open market prior to the date on which notice
         of the redemption of such Term Bonds is given pursuant to the Indenture, at a price not to exceed the
         redemption price of such Term Bonds (plus accrued interest which will be paid from moneys in the Bond
         Fund other than those in the Sinking Fund Account). Sinking Fund Installments may also be collected in the
         Sinking Fund Account without redemption of Bonds prior to maturity.

                  (b)     On the maturity date of any Term Bonds, the Trustee shall apply the moneys on hand in
         the Sinking Fund Account for the payment of the principal of such Term Bonds.

Use of Debt Service Reserve Fund

                   (a)     Except as otherwise provided in the Indenture, moneys in accounts within the Debt Service
         Reserve Fund shall at all times be maintained in an amount not less than the Debt Service Reserve
         Requirement. In calculating the amount on deposit in each account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund, the
         amount available under the Reserve Instrument Coverage will be treated as an amount on deposit therein.
         Each Supplemental Indenture authorizing the issuance of a Series of Bonds shall specify that the amount, if
         any, of the Debt Service Reserve Requirement applicable to such Series which shall be deposited immediately
         upon the issuance and delivery of such Series either from (a) proceeds from the sale thereof or from any other



                                                          B-9
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
         legally available source or may be built up over time as provided by the Supplemental Indenture, or (b) by a
         Reserve Instrument, or (c) any combination thereof. Funds on deposit in accounts within the Debt Service
         Reserve Fund shall be used only to make up any deficiencies in accounts within the Bond Fund with respect
         to the related Series of Bonds.

                   (b)      If on any Interest Payment Date the moneys held in the Bond Fund are insufficient to pay
         all interest, premium, if any, and principal then becoming due on the Bonds of a Series for which an account
         of the Debt Service Reserve Fund has been established, the Trustee shall transfer, on or before such date,
         moneys from the applicable accounts within the Debt Service Reserve Fund to the Bond Fund to the extent
         necessary so that the amount of money so transferred plus all moneys then held in the Bond Fund for such
         Series of Bonds shall be sufficient to pay all interest, premium, if any, and principal payments then becoming
         due and payable on such date;

                  (c)       In the event funds on deposit in the Debt Service Reserve Fund are needed to make up any
         deficiencies in the Bond Fund as aforementioned, and there is insufficient cash available in an account of the
         Debt Service Reserve Fund to make up such deficiency and a Reserve Instrument applicable to such Series
         of Bonds is in effect, the Trustee shall immediately make a demand for payment on such Reserve Instrument,
         to the maximum extent authorized by such Reserve Instrument, in the amount necessary to make up such
         deficiency, and immediately deposit such payment upon receipt thereof into the Bond Fund. Thereafter, the
         Authority shall be obligated to reinstate the Reserve Instrument from Base Rentals received from the City
         under the Master Lease, including any interest owing on any draws on the Reserve Instrument.

                   (d)    No Reserve Instrument shall be allowed to expire or terminate while the related Series of
         Bonds is Outstanding unless and until cash has been deposited into the related account of the Debt Service
         Reserve Fund, or a new Reserve Instrument has been issued in place of the expiring or terminating Reserve
         Instrument, or any combination thereof in an amount or to provide coverage, as the case may be, at least
         equal to the amount required.

                  (e)      In the event that the City shall exercise its option to purchase a Project or Projects and
         terminate its payment obligations under the Master Lease upon payment of the Purchase Option Price with
         respect to said Project or Projects, the Trustee shall transfer all moneys held in the Debt Service Reserve
         Fund (other than any amount drawn under any Reserve Instrument) applicable to said Project or Projects to
         the Bond Fund in accordance with the written direction of the City.

                  (f)       In the event moneys are drawn from the related account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund
         to pay principal, premium or interest on the related Series of Bonds, such that there shall be remaining in said
         account an amount less than the Debt Service Reserve Requirement, the Trustee shall immediately give notice
         to the Authority and the City of such deficiency. Such account shall be replenished to the Debt Service
         Reserve Requirement upon the deposit by the Trustee of the additional Base Rental payment to be paid by
         the City pursuant to the Master Lease.

                   (g)     Any moneys (other than any amount drawn under any Reserve Instrument) remaining in
         the related account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund with respect to a Series of Bonds on the final maturity
         of said Series of Bonds (whether at stated maturity or upon prior redemption) shall be transferred on such
         date into the Bond Fund.

                  (h)       If, following the payment of principal and interest due on a Series of Bonds on each Interest
         Payment Date, the moneys (other than any amount drawn under any Reserve Instrument) held in the related
         account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund exceed the related Debt Service Reserve Requirement, all moneys
         in excess of said sum shall be immediately transferred to the Bond Fund. To the extent so paid, such excess
         shall reduce the amount of the succeeding Base Rental otherwise payable under the Master Lease.

                  (i)     Moneys at any time on deposit in an account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund shall be
         used to make up deficiencies in the Bond Fund only for the Series of Bonds secured by said account and any
         Reserve Instrument shall only be drawn upon with respect to the Series of Bonds for which such Reserve
         Instrument was obtained.


                                                         B-10
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
Use of Construction Fund; Disbursements

        The moneys in the Construction Fund shall be expended in accordance with the provisions of the Master
Lease and the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Series of Bonds.

Use of Rebate Fund and Arbitrage Rebate

                  (a)      When directed in writing to do so by the Authority, the Trustee shall establish and thereafter
         maintain, so long as the Bonds are Outstanding, a Rebate Fund and an account therein for each such Series,
         which shall be held separate and apart from all other funds and accounts established under the Indenture and
         from all other moneys of the Trustee.

                   (b)      All amounts in the Rebate Fund, including income earned from investment of the fund,
         shall be held by the Trustee free and clear of the lien of the Indenture. In the event the amount on deposit in
         the Rebate Fund exceeds the aggregate amount of Rebatable Arbitrage for all Series of Bonds, as verified in
         writing by an independent public accountant or other qualified professional at the time the Rebatable
         Arbitrage is determined, less amounts of Rebatable Arbitrage theretofore paid to the United States for all
         Series of Bonds, the Trustee shall, upon the Authority’s request, withdraw from the Rebate Fund and pay to
         the Authority an amount not to exceed such excess.

                   (c)      The Authority shall determine the amount of Rebatable Arbitrage and the corresponding
         Required Rebate Deposit with respect to each Series of Bonds on each applicable Rebate Calculation Date.
         The Authority shall deposit into the Rebate Fund the Required Rebate Deposit, if any, with respect to each
         Series of Bonds (or instruct the Trustee to transfer to the Rebate Fund moneys representing such Required
         Rebate Deposit from the Funds and Accounts held under the Indenture other than the Rebate Fund) within
         30 days of each such Rebate Calculation Date. The Authority shall instruct the Trustee to withdraw from the
         Rebate Fund and pay over to the United States Government with respect to each Series of Bonds: (1) not
         less frequently than once each five years commencing no later than 60 days after the first Rebate Calculation
         Date for such Series of Bonds and upon each fifth anniversary of such date, an amount which when added to
         all previous rebate payments made with respect to such Series of Bonds equals 90% of the sum of the
         Rebatable Arbitrage pertaining to such Series of Bonds, and (2) not later than 60 days after the retirement of
         the last Bond of such Series, 100% of the Rebatable Arbitrage with respect to such Series. The determination
         of Rebatable Arbitrage made with respect to each such payment date and with respect to any withdrawal and
         payment to the Authority from the Rebate Fund pursuant to the Indenture must be verified in writing by an
         independent public accountant or other qualified professional.

Moneys to be Held in Trust

         All moneys required to be deposited with or paid to the Trustee for account to any fund referred to in any
provision of the Indenture or the Master Lease shall be held by the Trustee in trust, and except for moneys deposited
with or paid to the Trustee for the payment of Bonds not then deemed Outstanding shall, while held by the Trustee,
constitute part of the Trust Estate and be subject to the lien or security interest created by the Indenture.

Investment of Funds

         The City will direct the Trustee in investing amounts held in the funds created under the Indenture. Any
moneys held as part of the Construction Fund, the Bond Fund, the Debt Service Reserve Fund, the Rebate Fund or
any other fund shall be invested and reinvested by the Trustee in Investment Obligations at the written direction of the
Authority in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and of the Master Lease. Any such investments shall be
held by or under the control of the Trustee. The Trustee shall sell and reduce to cash a sufficient amount of such
investments within the Bond Fund whenever the cash balance therein is insufficient to pay the principal of and
premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds when due. All income and earnings from the investment of amounts on
deposit in any fund shall be retained therein; provided, however, that any moneys held in the Debt Service Reserve
Fund in excess of the Debt Service Reserve Requirement shall be transferred to the Bond Fund at least annually.




                                                         B-11
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
Method of Valuation and Frequency of Valuation

         In computing the amount in any Fund or account, Investment Obligations shall be valued at the fair market
value of such Obligations, exclusive of accrued interest. All funds and accounts are to be valued on the basis of a
market valuation conducted annually by the Trustee.

Additional Parity Bonds

         Refunding Bonds. So long as the Master Lease is in effect and no Event of Default under the Indenture or
the Master Lease has occurred and is continuing and so long as no Event of Nonappropriation has occurred and is
continuing, one or more Series of Refunding Bonds may be issued, authenticated and delivered for the purpose of
refunding Bonds or other obligations of the Authority (with accompanying security documentation and pledge of
refinanced property). The Refunding Bonds may be issued in one or more Series, shall be authenticated and registered
by the Trustee and, upon payment to the Trustee of the proceeds of said sale of Refunding Bonds, they shall be
delivered by the Trustee to or upon the order of the purchasers thereof, but only upon satisfaction of the conditions
specified in the Indenture and there being filed with the Trustee:

                   (a)      Original executed counterparts of a Supplemental Indenture, a supplement or amendment
         (if necessary) to the Security Documents and the Master Lease providing for the issuance of such Refunding
         Bonds, and further providing for a revision to the Base Rentals to be paid by the City under the Master Lease
         to such amount as shall be necessary to pay, assuming that no Event of Default or Event of Nonappropriation
         shall occur, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds (including the Refunding Bonds
         being issued and any Bonds theretofore issued and to remain Outstanding), and to extend the Lease Term if
         the maturity of any of the Refunding Bonds would otherwise occur after the expiration of the then current
         Lease Term. The date or dates of the Refunding Bonds, the rate or rates of interest on the Refunding Bonds,
         and the redemption provisions (if any) with respect thereto all shall be as provided in the Supplemental
         Indenture;

                   (b)      If any of the Bonds being refunded were Tax-Exempt Bonds or were designated as Tax
         Credit Bonds qualifying for Direct Payments, a written opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel, to the
         effect that the exclusion from gross income of the interest on the Tax-Exempt Bonds being refunded or the
         status of the Bonds as Tax Credit Bonds qualifying for Direct Payments, for federal income tax purposes,
         will not be adversely affected by the issuance of the Refunding Bonds being issued;

                   (c)      A date-down endorsement to the ALTA mortgagee title insurance policy issued in
         connection with the issuance of the Bonds being refunded or commitment therefor (or if the bonds or other
         obligations being refunded were not issued pursuant to the Indenture, an ALTA Mortgagee title insurance
         policy or commitment therefor), which endorsement or policy shall insure to the date of issuance of such
         Refunding Bonds and the recording of any supplement or amendment to the Security Documents the
         continuing validity of the lien thereof, as modified by any supplement or amendment to the Security
         Documents, as a first and prior lien on the premises thereby secured, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances,
         and which endorsement or policy shall increase the amount of title insurance coverage thereunder, if
         necessary, to an amount, which when added to the coverage provided under any other title policies delivered
         with respect to other Bonds then Outstanding and issued with respect to the Project financed by the Bonds or
         other obligations to be refunded, is at least equal to the aggregate principal amount of all Bonds to be
         Outstanding with respect to such Project following said refunding and naming the Trustee as an insured;
         alternatively, the Authority may reasonably expect to be able to deliver the required mortgage title insurance
         following delivery of the related Series of Bonds, provided that no proceeds of such Bonds shall be drawn
         out of the Construction Fund until such mortgage title insurance is delivered (except for costs of issuance
         related to such Bonds);

                  (d)       (i) A report of an independent firm of certified public accountants to the effect that, upon
         the issuance of the Refunding Bonds, moneys and Direct Obligations will be deposited with the Trustee or
         an escrow agent sufficient to cause the Bonds (or other obligations) being refunded to be deemed paid under
         the Indenture (or a comparable provision of the documents authorizing the obligations to be refunded even if
         not deemed paid for Cross-over Refunding Bonds); or (ii) in the event that the Bonds (or other obligations)


                                                         B-12
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
         to be refunded are to be redeemed on the date of issuance of the Refunding Bonds or within ninety (90) days
         thereafter, there shall be delivered to the Trustee evidence satisfactory to it that upon the issuance of the
         Refunding Bonds moneys and Direct Obligations will be deposited with the Trustee or an escrow agent
         sufficient, without taking into account investment earnings thereon, to redeem the Bonds (or other
         obligations); and

                   (e)      A certificate of the Authority, stating that as of the date of such delivery no event or
         condition has happened or exists and is continuing, or is happening or existing, which constitutes, or which,
         with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute, an Event of Default under the Indenture or the Master
         Lease and there has not occurred and is then continuing an Event of Nonappropriation; provided however
         that the existence of an Event of Default shall not preclude the issuance of any Additional Bonds if: (i) the
         issuance of such Additional Bonds otherwise complies with the provisions of the Indenture and (ii) any Event
         of Default will cease to continue upon the issuance of such Additional Bonds and the application of the
         proceeds thereof.

         Each Series of Refunding Bonds issued pursuant to the Indenture shall be equally and ratably secured under
the Indenture with the Initial Bonds and all other Series of Additional Bonds and Refunding Bonds, if any, theretofore
issued pursuant to the Indenture, without preference, priority or distinction of any Bonds over any other thereof.

          Additional Bonds. So long as the Master Lease is in effect and no Event of Default under the Indenture or
the Master Lease has occurred and is continuing and so long as no Event of Nonappropriation has occurred and is
continuing, one or more Series of Additional Bonds may be issued, authenticated and delivered for the purpose of
financing Costs of Acquisition and Construction of a Project or Projects. Such Additional Bonds shall be payable
solely from the Base Rentals and, if paid by the City, the Purchase Option Price and other amounts derived from the
leasing of the Projects. The Additional Bonds may be issued in one or more Series, shall be authenticated and
registered by the Trustee and, upon payment to the Trustee of the proceeds of said sale of Additional Bonds, they shall
be delivered by the Trustee to or upon the order of the purchasers thereof, but only upon satisfaction of the conditions
specified in the Indenture and there being filed with the Trustee:

                  (a)       Original executed counterparts of a Supplemental Indenture, additional Security
         Documents or a supplement or amendment (if necessary) to the Security Documents and Master Lease
         providing for the financing of a Project and for the issuance of the Additional Bonds and further providing
         for an increase in the Base Rentals to be paid by the City under the Master Lease in such amount as shall be
         necessary to pay, assuming that no Event of Default or Event of Nonappropriation shall occur, the principal
         of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds (including the Additional Bonds being issued and any Bonds
         theretofore issued and Outstanding), and to extend the Lease Term if the maturity of any of the Additional
         Bonds would otherwise occur after the expiration of the then current Lease Term. The date or dates of the
         Additional Bonds, the rate or rates of interest on the Additional Bonds, and the redemption provisions (if
         any) with respect thereto all shall be as provided in the Supplemental Indenture;

                   (b)      A date-down endorsement to the ALTA mortgagee title insurance policy issued in
         connection with the issuance of the Initial Bonds (or other Bonds) or commitment therefor or an additional
         ALTA mortgagee title insurance policy or commitment therefor, which endorsement or policy shall insure
         to the date of issuance of such Additional Bonds and the recording of any additional Security Documents or
         supplement to the Security Documents, if required, the continuing validity of the lien thereof, as modified by
         any supplement to the Security Documents, as a first and prior lien on the premises thereby secured, subject
         only to Permitted Encumbrances, and which endorsement or additional policy shall increase the amount of
         title insurance coverage thereunder to an amount at least equal to the aggregate principal amount of the
         Additional Bonds to be issued (or in the case of Additional Bonds issued to complete or extend a Project
         previously financed under the Indenture the endorsement to the original policy for such Project shall increase
         the coverage to at least the aggregate principal amount of Bonds issued for such Project to be Outstanding
         following the issuance of such Additional Bonds) and naming the Trustee as an insured. In the event that the
         property upon which additional projects are to be located has not been acquired at or prior to the time of
         issuance of the Additional Bonds, the amendment to Master Lease relating to such Additional Bonds shall
         require that such endorsement or additional title policy with respect to such property be delivered at the time



                                                         B-13
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
         of or prior to any disbursements being made from the Construction Fund with respect to such portion of the
         Project (except for costs of issuance related to such Bonds);

                  (c)       if such Series of Additional Bonds is being issued in whole or in part for construction
         purposes, (i) a copy, duly certified by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Authority, of the project contract and
         architect’s agreement with respect to such construction and the performance and payment bond covering such
         contract or, in the alternative, a requirement that a copy of such documents be delivered to the Trustee prior
         to the time that moneys are withdrawn from the Construction Fund with respect to such portions of the
         Project, and (ii) a certificate of the architect or engineer responsible for planning and designing any such
         construction which sets forth the estimated useful life of the Project or Projects, as so improved and extended,
         in compliance with Section 17D-2-301 of the Act; and

                   (e)      a certificate of the Authority, stating that as of the date of such delivery no event or
         condition has happened or exists and is continuing, or is happening or existing, which constitutes, or which,
         with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute, an Event of Default under the Indenture or the Master
         Lease and there has not occurred and is then continuing an Event of Nonappropriation; provided however
         that the existence of an Event of Default shall not preclude the issuance of any Additional Bonds if: (i) the
         issuance of such Additional Bonds otherwise complies with the provisions of the Indenture and (ii) any Event
         of Default will cease to continue upon the issuance of such Additional Bonds and the application of the
         proceeds thereof.

         Each Series of Additional Bonds issued pursuant to the Indenture shall be equally and ratably secured under
the Indenture with the Initial Bonds and all other Series of Additional Bonds and Refunding Bonds, if any, theretofore
issued pursuant to the Indenture, without preference, priority or distinction of any Bonds over any other thereof.

Discharge of Lien

         If the Authority shall pay or cause to be paid, or there shall be otherwise paid or unconditional provisions for
payment made to or for the Bondholders, the principal of and premium, if any, and interest due or to become due on
the Bonds at the times and in the manner stipulated therein, and shall pay or cause to be paid to the Trustee and any
paying agents, all Security Instrument Issuers, and all Reserve Instrument Providers all sums of money due or to
become due according to the provisions of the Indenture (including any make whole interest payment or redemption
premiums), then these presents and the estate and rights hereby granted shall cease, terminate and be void, whereupon
the Trustee shall cancel and discharge the lien of the Indenture, and release, assign and deliver unto the Authority and
the City any and all the estate, right, title and interest in and to any and all rights assigned to the Trustee or otherwise
subject to the lien of the Indenture, including amounts in the Bond Fund and the Debt Service Reserve Fund and all
rights granted under the Security Documents, except moneys or securities held by the Trustee for the payment of the
principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds.

          Any Bond shall be deemed to be paid for all purposes of the Indenture when (a) payment of the principal of
and the applicable redemption premium, if any, on such Bond, plus interest thereon to the due date thereof (whether
such due date be by reason of maturity or upon redemption as provided in the Indenture, or otherwise), either (i) shall
have been made or caused to be made in accordance with the terms thereof, or (ii) shall have been provided by
irrevocably depositing with or for the benefit of the Trustee, in trust, and the Trustee shall have irrevocably set aside
exclusively for such payment, (1) moneys sufficient to make such payment, and/or (2) Direct Obligations maturing as
to principal and interest in such amount and at such times as will insure, without reinvestment, the availability of
sufficient moneys to make such payment as verified by a Certified Public Accountant, and (b) all necessary and proper
fees, compensation and expenses of the Trustee and any paying agents pertaining to the Bonds with respect to which
such deposit is made shall have been paid or the payment thereof provided for to the satisfaction of the Trustee. At
such time as a Bond shall be deemed to be paid under the Indenture, as aforesaid, it shall no longer be secured by or
entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, except for the purposes of any such payment from such moneys or Direct
Obligations.

         Notwithstanding the foregoing, no deposit under clause (a)(ii) of the immediately preceding paragraph shall
be deemed a payment of such Bonds as aforesaid until: (a) proper notice of redemption of such Bonds shall have been
previously given in accordance with the Indenture, or in the event said Bonds are not by their terms subject to


                                                           B-14
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
redemption within the next succeeding sixty days, until the Authority shall have given the Trustee, in form satisfactory
to the Trustee, irrevocable instructions to notify, as soon as practicable, the Bondholders of the Bonds, in accordance
with the redemption provisions of the Indenture, that the deposit required by (a)(ii) above has been made with or for
the benefit of the Trustee and that said Bonds are deemed to have been paid in accordance with the general covenants
of the Indenture, and stating such maturity or redemption date upon which moneys are to be available for the payment
of the principal or redemption price, if applicable, on said Bonds and to call for redemption pursuant to the Indenture
any Bonds to be redeemed prior to maturity; or (b) the maturity of such Bonds.

          All moneys so deposited with or for the benefit of the Trustee as provided in the Indenture may at the direction
of the Authority also be invested and reinvested in Direct Obligations, maturing in the amounts and at times as set
forth in the Indenture, and all income from all Direct Obligations pursuant to the Indenture which is not required for
the payment of the Bonds and interest and premium, if any, thereon with respect to which such moneys shall have
been so deposited, shall be deposited in the Bond Fund as and when realized and collected for use and application as
are other moneys deposited in that fund.

         The Authority hereby covenants that no deposit will be made under the Indenture and no use made of any
such deposit which would cause the Tax-Exempt Bonds to be treated as arbitrage bonds within the meaning of Section
148 of the Code.

          Notwithstanding any other provision of the Indenture, all moneys or Direct Obligations set aside and held in
trust pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture regarding the discharge of the lien for the payment of Bonds (including
interest and premium thereon, if any) shall be applied to and used solely for the payment of the particular Bonds
(including interest and premium thereof, if any) with respect to which such moneys and Direct Obligations have been
so set aside in trust.

Events of Default

         Any of the following events constitute an “Event of Default” under the Indenture:

                  (a)       Failure to pay when due interest on any Bond;

                  (b)      Failure to pay when due the principal of, or premium, if any, on any Bond, whether at the
         stated maturity thereof, or upon proceedings for redemption thereof (other than as specified in a conditional
         notice of redemption);

                   (c)     Failure to perform or observe any other of the covenants, agreements or conditions on the
         part of the Authority contained in the Indenture or in the Bonds and failure to remedy the same after notice
         thereof pursuant to the Indenture;

                  (d)       The occurrence of an event of default under the terms of any of the other Bond Documents
         on the part of either the Authority or the City;

                  (e)       The Authority shall for any reason be rendered incapable of fulfilling its obligations under
         the Indenture;

                   (f)       The Authority (1) is adjudged insolvent by a court of competent jurisdiction, (2) admits in
         writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, (3) files a petition in bankruptcy, (4) makes
         an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or (5) consents to the appointment of a receiver of itself or property
         with respect to the Projects;

                  (g)       An order, judgment or decree shall be entered by any court of competent jurisdiction
         appointing, without the consent of the Authority, a receiver of the Authority or of the property with respect
         to the Projects, and such order, judgment or decree shall not be vacated or set aside or stayed within sixty
         days from the date of such appointment;




                                                          B-15
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
                   (h)      A court of competent jurisdiction shall enter an order, judgment or decree approving a
         petition filed against the Authority under the provisions of any bankruptcy act and such order, judgment or
         decree shall not be vacated or set aside or stayed within sixty days from the date of entry of such order,
         judgment or decree;

                  (i)      Under the provisions of any other law now or hereafter existing for the relief or aid of
         debtors, any court of competent jurisdiction shall assume custody or control of the Authority or of the
         property with respect to the Projects or any part thereof, and such custody or control shall not be terminated
         within sixty days from the date of assumption of such custody or control; or

                  (j)        Subject to the limitations contained in the Master Lease, the Authority shall unreasonably
         delay or fail to carry on with reasonable dispatch, or shall discontinue construction of any substantial part of
         a Project.

Acceleration, Limitation on Remedies

          Upon the occurrence and continuation of an Event of Default, the Trustee shall (subject to (a) the applicable
provisions of the related Supplemental Indenture and (b) the the rights of any Security Instrument Issuer contained in
a Supplemental Indenture) have all the rights and remedies with respect to the Trust Estate as the Authority, as lessor,
has against the Projects and the City under the pertinent provisions of the Master Lease; and the Trustee may, and
upon the written request of Bondholders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds Outstanding
shall, by notice in writing delivered to the Authority, declare the principal of all Bonds then Outstanding and the
interest accrued thereon immediately due and payable, and such principal and interest shall thereupon become and be
immediately due and payable without further action. Such amounts of principal and interest shall bear interest from
the date of acceleration, as provided in the Indenture, until paid at the same rate borne by the accelerated Bonds prior
to acceleration.

         Upon any sale made either under the power of sale given granted under the Indenture or given in the Security
Documents or under a judgment, order or decree made in any judicial proceedings for the foreclosure or enforcement
of the Indenture and/or the Security Documents, the principal of all Bonds then outstanding, if not previously due,
shall at once become and be immediately due and payable without declaration or notice by the Trustee or the
Bondholders.

          Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Indenture, no deficiency judgment upon
foreclosure of the lien of the Indenture or of the Security Documents against the Projects may be entered against the
City or the Authority, and no breach of any provision of the Master Lease, the Security Documents or the Indenture
shall impose any general obligation or liability upon or a charge against the City or the Authority or upon the general
credit or taxing powers of the City. Additionally, no judgment requiring a payment of money may be entered against
the City by reason of an Event of Default or an Event of Nonappropriation under the Master Lease; provided to the
extent permitted by law that the Trustee may, subject to compliance with the applicable provisions of the “one action
rule” set forth in Title 78B, Chapter 6, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, recover from the City: (a) the portion
of Base Rentals and Additional Rentals (including amounts owed to any Security Instrument Issuer and any Reserve
Instrument Provider) which are or would otherwise have been payable under the Master Lease during any period in
which the City continues to use, occupy and operate a Project or Projects or any portion thereof; and (b) Base Rentals
and Additional Rentals which are or would otherwise have been payable by the City under the Master Lease during
the remainder, after the City vacates the applicable Project or Projects, of the then-current annual term of the Master
Lease in which such Event of Default occurs for which term the City had lawfully appropriated moneys for purposes
of paying such Base Rentals and Additional Rentals; provided, however, that the Authority shall be obligated to the
City to use its best efforts to lease or sublease the Project or Projects for the remainder of such annual term, and the
Net Proceeds of such leasing shall be offset against the amount recoverable from the City under this clause (b).

         Notwithstanding anything in the Indenture to the contrary, the rights and privileges of the Trustee and the
Bondholders are subject to the right of the City to purchase the Project or Projects as set forth in the Master Lease and
the Trustee shall make no final sale or other final disposition of any interest in said Project or Projects pursuant to any
available foreclosure remedy without notifying the City in writing of the occurrence of an Event of Default, and
allowing the City ninety days from the mailing of such notice to exercise its option and purchase the Project or Projects.


                                                          B-16
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
Surrender of Possession of Projects; Rights and Duties of Trustee in Possession

          Subject to the provisions of the Indenture, upon the occurrence and continuation of an Event of Default under
the Indenture, the Authority, upon demand of the Trustee, shall forthwith surrender possession of the Projects, and it
shall be lawful for the Trustee, by such officer or agent as it may appoint, to take possession of all or any part of the
Projects together with the books, papers and accounts of the Authority pertaining thereto, and including the rights and
the position of the Authority with respect to the Projects under the Master Lease and to make all needful repairs and
improvements as the Trustee shall deem wise. Upon the occurrence and continuation of an Event of Default, the
Trustee may execute a written notice of default and an election to cause the Authority’s interest in the Projects or any
portion thereof to be sold (subject to any reversionary rights of the City which may be retained in the Project site or
sites in the event any ground lease may be executed between the Authority and the City) to satisfy the obligations of
the Authority under the Indenture in accordance with the provisions of the Security Documents and/or may cause a
sale of personal property as provided by law. The Trustee may also lease or otherwise dispose of the Authority’s
interest in the Projects in the name and for the account of the Authority and in such manner as the Trustee, in its sole
discretion, may elect. In connection with any such sale or leasing of the Projects, the Trustee may collect, receive and
sequester the rental payments, revenues, earnings, income, products and profits therefrom, and out of the same and
any moneys received from any receiver pay, or set up the proper reserve for the payment of, all proper costs and
expenses of so taking, holding, leasing, selling and managing the same, including reasonable compensation to the
Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any charges of the Trustee under the Indenture, and any taxes and assessments
and other charges prior to the lien of the Indenture and the Security Documents which the Trustee may deem it wise
to pay, and all expenses of such repairs and improvements, and apply the remainder of the moneys so received in
accordance with the provisions of the Indenture. Whenever all that is due upon the Bonds and all other obligations
secured by the Indenture shall have been paid and all defaults made, cured or waived, the Trustee shall surrender
whatever possession the Trustee shall retain to the Authority; the same right of entry, however, to exist upon any
subsequent Event of Default.

         While in possession of such property the Trustee shall render annually to the Authority and the City and, at
the request and at the expense of any Bondholder, at its address set forth in the registration book required by the
Indenture, a summarized statement of income and expenditures in connection therewith.

        While any Bonds are Outstanding, the Authority shall not exercise any of the remedies on default specified
in the Master Lease without the prior written consent of the Trustee and any Security Instrument Issuer.

Other Remedies; Rights of Bondholders

          Except as otherwise limited by the provisions of the Indenture and subject to the rights of any Security
Instrument Issuer, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Indenture, the Trustee may, upon being
satisfactorily indemnified, pursue any available remedy that it deems to be in the best interest of the Bondholders by
suit at law or in equity to enforce the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds then
Outstanding. and subject to the rights of any Security Instrument Issuer

         Subject to the right of Bondholders to direct proceedings as specified in the Indenture, if an Event of Default
shall have occurred under the Indenture, and if requested so to do by the Bondholders of 25% in aggregate principal
amount of Bonds then Outstanding and indemnified as provided in the Indenture, the Trustee shall be obligated to
exercise such one or more of the rights and powers conferred by the Indenture, as the Trustee, being advised by
counsel, shall deem most expedient in the interests of the Bondholders.

         No remedy by the terms of the Indenture conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee (or the Bondholders) is
intended to be exclusive of any other remedy, but each and every such remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in
addition to any other remedy given to the Trustee or to the Bondholders hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law
or in equity.

         No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default or Event of Default under the
Indenture shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or Event of
Default or acquiescence therein; and such right and power may be exercised from time to time as often as may be
deemed expedient. Every power or remedy given by the Indenture, the Master Lease or the Security Documents or to


                                                         B-17
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
which the Trustee may be otherwise entitled, may be exercised, concurrently or independently, from time to time and
as often as may be deemed expedient by the Trustee, and the Trustee may pursue inconsistent remedies.

         No waiver of any default or Event of Default hereunder, whether by the Trustee or by the Bondholders, shall
extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or Event of Default or shall impair any rights or remedies consequent
thereon.

         Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indenture or in the Security Documents to the contrary, upon the
occurrence and continuance of an Event of Default, before taking any foreclosure action or any action which may
subject the Trustee to liability under any Environmental Law, the Trustee may require that a satisfactory indemnity
bond, indemnity or environmental impairment insurance be furnished for the payment or reimbursement of all
expenses to which it may be put and to protect it against all liability resulting from any claims, judgments, damages,
losses, penalties, fines, liabilities (including strict liability) and expenses which may result from such foreclosure or
other action. The term “Environmental Law” shall mean all federal, state and local environmental, land use, zoning,
health, chemical use, safety and sanitation laws, statutes, ordinances and codes relating to the protection of the
environment or governing the use, storage, treatment, generation, transportation, processing, handling, production or
disposal of Hazardous Substances and the rules, regulations, policies, guidelines, interpretations, decisions, orders and
directives of federal, state and local governmental agencies and authorities with respect thereto. The term “Hazardous
Substances” shall mean any chemical, substance or material classified or designated as hazardous, toxic or radioactive,
or other similar term, and now or hereafter regulated under any Environmental Law, including without limitation,
asbestos, petroleum and hydrocarbon products. If the approval of a government regulator shall be a condition
precedent to taking any foreclosure action then the Trustee shall not be required to take such action until such approval
is obtained.

Right of Bondholders to Direct Proceedings

          Except as otherwise provided by Supplemental Indenture, the Bondholders of a majority in aggregate
principal amount of the Bonds then Outstanding shall have the right, at any time, by an instrument or instruments in
writing executed and delivered to the Trustee, to direct the method and place of conducting all proceedings to be taken
in connection with the enforcement of the terms and conditions of the Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver
or any other proceedings authorized under the Indenture; provided that such direction shall not be otherwise than in
accordance with the provisions of law and of the Indenture and such bondholders have provided the Trustee
indemnification as it is provided in the Indenture. Unless indemnified therefor, the Trustee shall have the right to
decline to follow any direction of Bondowners that in the sole discretion of the Trustee would be unjustly prejudicial
to the Trustee or to Bondowners not parties to such direction, that would expose the Trustee to unreasonable liability
or financial exposure or that is not in accordance with law or the provisions of the Indenture, shall be entitled to rely
without further investigation or inquiry upon any direction given by the Owners of a majority in aggregate principal
amount of the Bonds Outstanding, and shall not be responsible for the propriety of or liable for the consequences of
following any such direction. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Indenture, unless indemnified
therefor, the Trustee shall not be required to foreclose the lien of the Security Documents or bid on behalf of
Bondowners at any foreclosure sale (a) if, in the Trustee’s sole discretion, such action would subject the Trustee to
personal liability for the cost of investigation, removal and/or other remedial activity with respect to Hazardous
Substances or (b) if the presence of Hazardous Substances on the property subject to the lien of the Security Documents
results in such property having no or nominal value. It is acknowledged and agreed that the Trustee has no authority
to manage, own or operate the Project, or any portion thereof, except as necessary to exercise remedies upon default.

Appointment of Receivers

         Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Indenture and upon the filing of a suit or other
commencement of judicial proceedings to enforce the rights of the Trustee and of the Bondholders under the Indenture,
the Trustee shall be entitled to the appointment of a receiver or receivers of the Trust Estate and of the rents, revenues,
earnings, income, products and profits thereof, pending such proceedings, with such powers as the court making such
appointment shall confer.




                                                          B-18
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
Waiver

          Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Indenture, to the extent that such rights may then
lawfully be waived, neither the Authority, nor anyone claiming through or under it, shall set up, claim or seek to take
advantage of any appraisement, valuation, stay, extension or redemption laws now or hereafter in force, in order to
prevent or hinder the enforcement of the Indenture, and the Authority, for itself and all who may claim through or
under it, pursuant to the Indenture waives, to the extent that it lawfully may do so, the benefit of all such laws.

Application of Moneys

         All moneys received by the Trustee pursuant to any right given or action taken under the provisions relating
to default shall, after payment of the costs and expenses of the proceedings resulting in the collection of such moneys
and of the expenses, liabilities and advances incurred or made by the Trustee, including any Trustee fees and the fees
and expenses of its counsel, be deposited in the Bond Fund and all moneys in the Bond Fund (except as otherwise
provided herein or in a Supplemental Indenture) shall be applied as follows:

         (a)     Unless the principal of all the Bonds shall have become or shall have been declared due and payable,
all such moneys shall be applied:

         FIRST-To the payment to the persons entitled thereto of all installments of interest then due on the Bonds,
in the order of the maturity of the installments of such interest and, if the amount available shall not be sufficient to
pay in full any particular installment, then to the payment ratably, according to the amounts due on such installment,
to the persons entitled thereto, without any discrimination or privilege; and

         SECOND-To the payment to the persons entitled thereto of the unpaid principal of and premium, if any, on
any of the Bonds which shall have become due (other than Bonds matured or called for redemption for the payment
of which moneys are held pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture), in the order of their due dates, with interest on
such Bonds from the respective dates upon which they became due (with interest on overdue installments of interest,
at the same rate as the rate of the respective Bond or Bonds, or rate as otherwise specified in the applicable
Supplemental Indenture, which are past due) and, if the amount available shall not be sufficient to pay in full Bonds
due on any particular date, together with such interest, then to the payment ratably, according to the amount of principal
due on such date, to the persons entitled thereto without any discrimination or privilege; and

         THIRD-To be held for the payment of the persons entitled thereto as the same shall become due of the
principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds which may thereafter become due either at maturity or
upon call for redemption prior to maturity and, if the amount available shall not be sufficient to pay in full Bonds due
on any particular date, together with interest then due and owing thereon, payment shall be made ratably according to
the amount of principal due on such date to the persons entitled thereto without any discrimination or privilege.

         (b)       If the principal of all the Bonds shall have become due or shall have been declared due and payable,
all such moneys shall be applied to the payment of the principal and interest then due and unpaid upon the Bonds,
without preference or priority of principal over interest or of interest over principal, or of any installment of interest
over any other installment of interest, or of any Bond over any other Bond, ratably, according to the amounts due
respectively for principal and interest, to the persons entitled thereto without any discrimination or privilege, plus, to
the extent permitted by law, interest on overdue installments of interest or principal at the same rate as the rate of the
respective Bond or Bonds, or rate as otherwise specified in the applicable Supplemental Indenture, which are past due.

          (c)      If the principal of all the Bonds shall have been declared due and payable, and if such declarations
shall thereafter have been rescinded and annulled under the provisions of the Indenture then, subject to the provisions
of paragraph (b) above in the event that the principal of all the Bonds shall later become due or be declared due and
payable, the moneys shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of (a) above.

         (d)      Following the payment of amounts due with respect to the Bonds, remaining amounts shall be
applied to the payment of all obligations then due and payable to any Security Instrument Issuer or Reserve Instrument
Provider in connection with any Security Instrument or applicable Reserve Instrument, respectively.



                                                          B-19
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
          Whenever moneys are to be applied pursuant to the provisions of this section, such moneys shall be applied
at such times, and from time to time, as the Trustee shall determine, having due regard to the amount of such moneys
available for application and the likelihood of additional moneys becoming available for such application in the future.
Setting aside such moneys in trust for the proper purpose shall constitute proper application by the Trustee, and the
Trustee shall have no liability whatsoever to the Authority, to any Bondholder, or to any other person for any delay in
applying any such moneys, so long as the Trustee acts with reasonable diligence, having due regard for the
circumstances, and ultimately applies the same in accordance with the circumstances known at the time of the
application by the Trustee. Whenever the Trustee shall apply such moneys, it shall fix the date (which shall be an
Interest Payment Date unless it shall deem another date more suitable) upon which such application is to be made and
upon such date interest on the amounts of principal to be paid on such date shall cease to accrue, provided the Trustee
send the money to the Bondholders. The Trustee shall give such notice as it may deem appropriate of the deposit with
it of any such moneys and of the fixing of any such date and shall not be required to make payment to the Bondholder
of any Bond until such Bond shall be presented to Trustee for appropriate endorsement or for cancellation if fully paid
(unless otherwise specified by Supplemental Indenture).

          Whenever the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on all Bonds and all Reserve Instrument
Repayment Obligations have been paid under the provisions of this section and all fees, expenses and charges of the
Trustee and its counsel have been paid, any balance remaining in the Bond Fund shall be paid to the City as provided
in the Indenture as overpayment of Base Rentals.

Rights and Remedies of Bondholders

          Unless otherwise provided by Supplemental Indenture, no Bondholder shall have any right to institute any
suit, action or proceeding at law or in equity for the enforcement of the Indenture or for the execution of any trust
under the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or any other remedy thereunder, unless a default has occurred
of which the Trustee has been notified as provided in the Indenture, or of which by said subsection it is deemed to
have notice, nor unless also such default shall have become an Event of Default under the Indenture and the
Bondholders of 25% in aggregate principal amount of Bonds then Outstanding shall have made written request to the
Trustee and shall have offered it reasonable opportunity either to proceed to exercise the powers granted in the
Indenture or to institute such action, suit or proceeding in their own name or names, nor unless also they have offered
to the Trustee indemnity as provided in the Indenture, nor unless the Trustee shall thereafter fail or refuse to exercise
the powers granted to the Trustee under the Indenture, or to institute such action, suit or proceeding in its own name;
and such notification, request and offer of indemnity are hereby declared in every case at the option of the Trustee to
be conditions precedent to the execution of the powers and trusts of the Indenture, and to any action or cause of action
for the enforcement of the Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or for any other remedy under the Indenture;
it being understood and intended that no one or more Bondholders shall have any right in any manner whatsoever to
affect, disturb or prejudice the lien of the Indenture by its, his, her or their action or to enforce any right thereunder
except in the manner therein provided, and that all proceedings at law or in equity shall be instituted, had and
maintained in the manner as provided in the Indenture and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Bondholders of all
Bonds then Outstanding. However, nothing contained in the Indenture shall affect or impair the right of any
Bondholder to enforce the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on any Bond at and after the
maturity thereof or the redemption date established therefor, or the obligation of the Authority to pay the Bonds issued
thereunder to the respective Bondholders thereof at the time, place, from the source and in the manner in the Bonds
expressed.

Waiver of Event of Default

          The Trustee may, with the consent of all Security Instrument Issuers and upon the written direction of
Security Instrument Issuers insuring a majority of the Bonds then Outstanding or, if some Bonds are uninsured, any
combination of Bondholders and Security Instrument Issuers representing a majority of the Bonds then Outstanding,
waive any Event of Default under the Indenture and its consequences and rescind any declaration of maturity of the
principal of the Bonds; provided, however, that there shall not be waived (1) any Event of Default under the Indenture
in the payment of the principal of any Outstanding Bonds at the date of maturity specified therein, or (2) any Event of
Default in the payment when due of the interest on any such Bonds, unless prior to such waiver or rescission, all
arrears of interests (including interest on overdue installments of interest) or all arrears of payments of principal when
due, as the case may be, both with interest at the same rate as the rate of the respective Bond or Bonds which are past


                                                          B-20
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
due, and all fees and expenses of the Trustee and its counsel, in connection with such Event of Default shall have been
paid or provided for, and in cases of any such waiver or rescission, or in case any proceeding taken by Trustee, the
Security Instrument Issuers on account of any such Event of Default shall have been discontinued or abandoned or
determined adversely, then and in every such case the Authority, the Trustee and the Bondholders shall be restored to
their former positions and rights under the Indenture respectively, but no such waiver or rescission shall extend to any
subsequent or other Event of Default, or impair any right consequent thereon. This provision is subject to additional
stipulations as may be provided by Supplemental Indenture.

Notice of Events of Default; Opportunity of the Authority and the City to Cure Such Events of Default

         Notwithstanding any provision in the Indenture to the contrary and except as otherwise provided by
Supplemental Indenture, failure to perform or observe any of the covenants, agreements or conditions on the part of
the Authority under the Indenture or in the Bonds shall not constitute an Event of Default under the Indenture until
actual notice of such default by registered or certified mail shall be given to the Authority and the City by the Trustee
or by the Bondholders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of all Bonds Outstanding, and the Authority
and the City shall have had thirty days after receipt of such notice to correct said default or cause said default to be
corrected, and shall not have corrected said default or caused said default to be corrected within the applicable period;
provided, however, that, if said default be such that it cannot be corrected within the applicable period, it shall not
constitute an Event of Default under the Indenture if corrective action is instituted by the Authority and the City within
the applicable period and diligently pursued, to the satisfaction of the Trustee until the default is corrected (provided
that no such grace period shall exceed 90 days unless the Security Instrument Issuers shall have consented thereto).

Limitation on Remedies and Acceleration During Acquisition and Construction of Portions of Projects

         Notwithstanding the provisions of the Indenture, the Master Lease or of the Security Documents to the
contrary, in the event that (a)(i) a portion of the Projects (the “Completed Portion of the Projects”) financed with a
separate Series of Bonds is accepted by the City for use and occupancy under the Master Lease, and (ii) the acquisition
and construction of additional portions of the Projects (the “Uncompleted Portion of the Projects”) financed with one
or more Series of Bonds (other than the Series of Bonds described in (i) above) have yet to be completed, and (b) an
Event of Default occurs due to the failure to complete the Uncompleted Portion of the Projects, the following
limitations shall apply:

                  (a)    Such Event of Default shall be limited to the Series of Bonds issued to finance the
         Uncompleted Portion of the Projects and not the Series of Bonds issued to finance the Completed Portion of
         the Projects;

                 (b)      The City shall, subject to the occurrence of an Event of Nonappropriation, continue to pay
         Base Rentals and Additional Rentals with respect to the Completed Portion of the Projects, and the Master
         Lease shall remain in full force and effect with respect to the Completed Portion of the Projects;

                  (c)      The Trustee shall use the amounts on deposit in the related account of the Debt Service
         Reserve Fund to pay amounts due on the Series of Bonds issued to finance the Uncompleted Portion of the
         Projects and amounts on deposit in the account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund relating to the Series of
         Bonds issued to finance the Completed Portion of the Projects shall not be used to pay amounts due on the
         Series of Bonds issued to finance the Uncompleted Portion of the Projects;

                  (d)      The Series of Bonds issued to finance the Completed Portion of the Projects shall not be
         accelerated or otherwise affected by the Event of Default described in the Indenture; and

                   (e)     The Trustee shall not proceed to exercise any remedies under the Indenture or the Security
         Documents relating to the Completed Portion of the Projects with respect to the Event of Default described
         in these provisions.




                                                          B-21
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
Supplemental Indentures Not Requiring Consent of Bondholders

        The Authority and the Trustee may (subject to the rights of any Security Instrument Issuer under any
Supplemental Indenture), without consent of, or notice to, any of the Bondholders enter into an indenture or indentures
supplemental to the Indenture which shall not be inconsistent with the general terms and provisions thereof for any
one or more of the following purposes:

                  (a)      To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in the Indenture;

                   (b)      To grant to or confer upon the Trustee for the benefit of the Bondholders any additional
         rights, remedies, powers or authority that may lawfully be granted to or conferred upon the Bondholders or
         the Trustee;

                  (c)      To subject to the Indenture additional revenues, properties or collateral;

                   (d)      To modify, amend or supplement the Indenture or any indenture supplemental hereto in
         such matter as to permit the qualification thereof under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, or any
         similar federal statute hereafter in effect or to permit the qualification of the Bonds for sale under the
         securities laws of any of the states of the United States of America;

                  (e)      To evidence the appointment of a separate Trustee or a Co-Trustee or paying agent or the
         succession of a new Trustee or paying agent under the Indenture;

                 (f)       To issue the Initial Bonds, Refunding Bonds or Additional Bonds in accordance with the
         Indenture and the Master Lease; and

                  (g)       To make any other change which, in the judgment of the Trustee, is not materially adverse
         to the Trustee or, as evidenced by an opinion of counsel delivered to the Trustee, the Holders of the Bonds.

Supplemental Indentures Requiring Consent of Bondholders

          Exclusive of supplemental indentures covered by the Indenture and subject to the terms and provisions
contained in the Indenture, and not otherwise, the Bondholders of not less than 66 2/3% in aggregate principal amount
of the Bonds then Outstanding shall have the right, from time to time, anything contained in the Indenture to the
contrary notwithstanding, to consent to and approve the execution by the Authority and the Trustee of such
Supplemental Indentures hereto as shall be deemed necessary and desirable by the Authority for the purpose of
modifying, altering, amending, adding to or rescinding, in any particular, any of the terms or provisions contained in
the Indenture or in any Supplemental Indenture; provided, however, that nothing in the Indenture contained shall
permit, or be construed as permitting, (i) an extension of the maturity of the principal of, or the interest on, any Bond
issued under the Indenture, or (ii) a reduction in the principal amount of, or redemption premium on, any Bond or the
rate of interest thereon, or (iii) a privilege or priority of any Bond or Bonds over any other Bond or Bonds, or (iv) a
reduction in the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds required for consent to such Supplemental Indentures, or (v)
permit the creation of any lien ranking prior to or on a parity with the lien of the Indenture and the Security Documents
on the Trust Estate or any part thereof (except in connection with the issuance of Refunding Bonds or Additional
Bonds), or (vi) deprive the Bondholder of any Bond then Outstanding of the lien created by the Indenture on any
material portion of the Trust Estate, without the prior consent of the Bondholders of 100% of the Bonds affected by
such action. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such Supplemental Indenture which
adversely affects the Trustee’s rights, deeds or immunities under the Indenture or the Master Lease.

         If the Bondholders of not less than 66 2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds Outstanding at the
time of the execution of any such Supplemental Indenture shall have consented to and approved the execution thereof
as provided in the Indenture, no holder of any Bond shall have any right to object to any of the terms and provisions
contained therein, or the operation thereof, or in any manner to question the propriety of the execution thereof, or to
enjoin or restrain the Trustee or the Authority from executing the same or from taking any action pursuant to the




                                                         B-22
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
provisions thereof. Upon the execution of any such Supplemental Indenture as permitted and provided in the
Indenture, the Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith.

          Anything therein to the contrary notwithstanding, so long as no Event of Default or Event of
Nonappropriation with respect to the Projects shall have occurred and be continuing under the Master Lease, a
Supplemental Indenture shall not become effective unless and until the City shall have consented to the execution and
delivery of such Supplemental Indenture. In this regard and except with respect to Supplemental Indentures for which
the City has otherwise been notified, the Trustee shall cause notice of the proposed execution of any such Supplemental
Indenture together with a copy of the proposed Supplemental Indenture to be mailed by certified or registered mail to
the City at least fifteen days prior to the proposed date of execution and delivery of any such Supplemental Indenture.
The City shall be deemed to have consented to the execution and delivery of any such Supplemental Indenture if the
Trustee does not receive a letter of protest or objection thereto signed by or on behalf of the City on or before the
fifteenth day after the mailing of said notice.

Amendments of the Master Lease

         Amendments, etc., to the Master Lease Not Requiring Consent of the Bondholders. The Authority and the
Trustee shall without the consent of or notice to the Bondholders (subject to the rights of any Security Instrument
Issuer under any Supplemental Indenture) consent to any amendment, change or modification of the Master Lease as
may be required (i) by the provisions of the Indenture and the Master Lease (including those provisions applicable to
the issuance of the Initial Bonds, Refunding Bonds and Additional Bonds), (ii) for the purpose of curing any ambiguity
or formal defect or omission, (iii) so as to more precisely identify the Projects, or the Project sites or substitute or add
additional improvements or equipment to the Projects or additional rights or interests in property acquired in
accordance with the provisions of the Master Lease, (iv) in connection with any amendment to the Indenture pursuant
to the provisions of the Indenture governing amendments to the Supplemental Indenture not requiring consent of the
Bondholders, or (v) in connection with any other change therein which, in the judgment of the Trustee is not materially
adverse to the Trustee or, as evidenced by an opinion of counsel delivered to the Trustee, the holders of the Bonds.

          Amendments, etc., to the Master Lease Requiring Consent of the Bondholders. Except for the amendments,
changes or modifications as provided in the preceding paragraph, neither the Authority nor the Trustee shall consent
to any other amendment, change or modification of the Master Lease without mailing of notice and receipt of the
written approval or consent of the Holders of not less than 66 2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds at the
time outstanding as provided in the Indenture and the consent of any Security Instrument Issuer as provided in any
Supplemental Indenture. If at any time the Authority and the City shall request the consent of the Trustee to any such
proposed amendment, change or modification of the Master Lease, the Trustee shall, upon being satisfactorily
indemnified with respect to expenses, cause notice of such proposed amendment, change or modification to be given
in the same manner as provided by the provisions of the Indenture with respect to Supplemental Indentures requiring
consent of the Bondholders. Such notice shall briefly set forth the nature of such proposed amendment, change or
modification and shall state that copies of the instrument embodying the same are on file at the designated office of
Trustee for inspection by all Holders of the Bonds. No such amendment, change or modification of the Master Lease
shall reduce the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds the Bondholders of which are required to consent to any
amendment, change or modification of such Master Lease, or materially reduce or postpone payments required to be
made under the Master Lease without the consent of all of the Holders of the Bonds Outstanding. Approval or consent
shall be evidenced in a manner acceptable to the Trustee and the Authority.

                                                THE MASTER LEASE

Definitions

        “Act” means collectively, the Building Authority Act, the Local Government Bonding Act, the Nonprofit
Corporation Act and, to the extent applicable, the Refunding Bond Act.

         “Additional Rentals” means the cost of all taxes, insurance premiums and expenses payable by, and fees and
expenses of, the Trustee and its counsel with respect to the Bonds and other charges and costs which the City assumes
or agrees to pay exclusively from City Funds under the Master Lease, together with all interest and penalties that may
accrue thereon in the event that the City shall fail to pay the same, as specifically set forth therein, including all


                                                           B-23
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
Security Instrument Repayment Obligations, Security Instrument Costs, Reserve Instrument Repayment Obligations
and Reserve Instrument Costs.

         “Amendment to Master Lease” means any amendment to the Master Lease between the Authority, as lessor,
and the City, as lessee, entered into pursuant to and in compliance with the provisions of the Master Lease and the
General Indenture.

        “Assignments of Ground Leases” means the Assignments of Ground Leases executed in favor of the Trustee
in connection with each Project that is the subject of a Ground Lease.

         “Authority” means the Local Building Authority of City of Holladay, Utah, a nonprofit corporation organized
under the laws of the State, acting in the capacity of lessor under the Master Lease and as grantor under the Indenture,
and any successor to the duties and functions of the Authority.

          “Authority Representative” means the Chair/President, Secretary-Treasurer and any other person or persons
at any time designated to act on behalf of the Authority for purposes of performing any act on behalf of the Authority
with respect to a Project by a written certificate furnished to the City and the Trustee containing the specimen signature
of such person or persons and signed on behalf of the Authority by any duly authorized officer of the Authority. Such
certificate may designate an alternate or alternates. The Authority Representative may be an officer or employee of
the Authority or the City.

          “Base Rentals” means the payments payable by the City exclusively from City Funds pursuant to the Master
Lease during the Lease Term thereof, which constitute the payments payable by the City for and in consideration of
the right of use of the Projects during such Lease Term and the purchase option granted in the Master Lease.

        “Building Authority Act” means the Local Building Authority Act, Title 17D, Chapter 2, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, as amended.

         “Business Day” means a legal business day on which banking business is transacted in the cities in which
the Trustee or Paying Agent has its principal corporate trust offices.

         “City” means City of Holladay, Utah a body politic duly established and existing under and by virtue of the
Constitution and laws of the State, and any entity succeeding to its rights and obligations under the Master Lease. Any
reference in the Master Lease to the “governing body” of the City shall refer to the City Council and to any successor
governing body as authorized by applicable law.

         “City Funds” means all revenues and receipts derived by the City from the operation of the Projects,
including, without limitation, funds of the City legally available therefor, all to the extent the same are budgeted and
appropriated by the governing body of the City for the purpose of paying Base Rentals, Additional Rentals or the
Purchase Option Price hereunder during the Lease Term in which the Master Lease may be in effect.

         “City Representative” means the Mayor, City Manager, and City Recorder of the City and any other person
at any time designated to act on behalf of the City for purposes of performing any act with respect to a Project by a
written certificate furnished to the Authority and the Trustee containing the specimen signature of such person and
signed on behalf of the City or any duly authorized officer thereof. Such certificate may designate an alternate or
alternates. The City Representative may be an officer or employee of the Authority or the City.

        “Completion Date” means the date of completion of acquisition and/or construction of a Project, within the
meaning of Section 17D-2-401(2) of the Building Authority Act, and of final acceptance by the City of such Project.

         “Construction Contract” means any contract or agreement relating to the acquisition, development or
construction of a Project or portion thereof.

         “Contractor” means that party to a Construction Contract or Design Contract providing services related to a
Project or portion thereof.



                                                          B-24
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
         “Costs of Acquisition and Construction” means:

                 (1)      obligations of the City or the Authority incurred for labor, materials and equipment in
         connection with a Project or the cost of acquiring a Project;

                  (2)      the cost of payment, performance or other bonds and any and all types of insurance
         (including but not limited to title insurance) that may be necessary or appropriate to have in effect during the
         course of a Project;

                  (3)       all costs of planning and designing a Project, including architectural, planning, engineering,
         legal and fiscal advisors’ fees and the costs incurred by the City or the Authority for test borings, surveys,
         estimates, plans and specifications and preliminary investigations therefor, and for supervising construction,
         as well as for the performance of all other duties required by or consequent to the proper and timely
         completion of such Project;

                  (4)      payment of expenses incurred in seeking to enforce any remedy against any contractor or
         subcontractor in respect of any default under a contract relating to the acquisition and construction of a
         Project;

                   (5)      the cost of equipment and furnishings for a Project, the cost of acquiring a site for a Project
         (or any interest therein) and all other costs authorized by the Building Authority Act which are considered to
         be a part of the costs of a Project in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, including but
         not limited to interest accruing on the Bonds during the period required to complete the acquisition and
         construction of such Project and for not more than twelve (12) months after the Completion Date;

                  (6)      any sums required to reimburse the Authority or the City for advances by either of them
         for any of the above items or for any other costs incurred and for work done by either of them which are
         properly chargeable to a capital account in respect of a Project;

                 (7)     such amounts as the governing body of the Authority shall find to be necessary to provide
         necessary working capital in connection with a Project; and

                  (8)      all expenses connected with the authorization, sale and issuance of a series of Bonds and
         the refunding of any Bonds, including the initial fees of the Trustee, escrow agent, rating agency fees, bond
         insurance premiums, fees for outside attorneys or accountants, whose opinions are required to obtain the
         issuance of the Bonds, municipal advisors’ fees and commissions and printing costs, those amounts as the
         Authority shall find necessary to establish reserves and maintenance, repair, replacement, and contingency
         funds and accounts, and the interest on Bonds for a reasonable time prior to, during, and for a reasonable
         period of time after completion of a Project.

        “Design Contract” means any contract or agreement relating to the architecture, design, engineering or
planning of a Project or portion thereof.

         “Event of Default” means one or more events of default as defined in the Master Lease.

          “Event of Nonappropriation” means a failure by the City to renew the Master Lease by failing or refusing to
budget and appropriate sufficient City Funds for the payment of all or any part of the Base Rentals and Additional
Rentals for any Renewal Term thereof as set forth in the Master Lease. The existence or nonexistence of an Event of
Nonappropriation shall be determined as of the date on which the governing body of the City fails or refuses to adopt
a final budget in accordance with applicable law which appropriates sufficient moneys to pay such Base Rentals and
reasonably estimated Additional Rentals for the next succeeding Renewal Term as contemplated by the Master Lease
or on any earlier or later date on which the Trustee receives written notice from the City that the governing body of
the City has failed or refused to make such appropriations and the term of the Master Lease will not be renewed;
provided, however, that the Trustee, with the consent of the Security Instrument Issuer, may waive any Event of
Nonappropriation which is cured by the City within a reasonable time if, in the Trustee’s judgment, such waiver is in



                                                          B-25
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
the best interests of the Bondholders, except as otherwise provided in the Master Lease or as otherwise provided by
Supplemental Indenture. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Master Lease, the City’s failure or refusal
to adopt a final budget in accordance with applicable law within the time provided by the Master Lease which
appropriates sufficient moneys to pay such Base Rentals and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals for the next
succeeding Renewal Term shall constitute an Event of Nonappropriation.

        “Fiscal Year” means the twelve-month period used from time to time by the City for its financial accounting
purposes (currently July 1 to June 30).

          “Force Majeure” means, without limitation, the following: acts of God; strikes, lockouts or other industrial
disturbances; acts of public enemies and terrorists; orders or restraints of any kind of the government of the United
States of America or of the State or any of their departments, agencies or officials, or any civil or military authority;
insurrections; riots; landslides; earthquakes; storms; droughts; floods; explosions; breakage or accidents to machinery,
transmission pipes or canals; or any other cause or event not reasonably within the control of the City and not due to
its negligence.

         “Ground Lease” means the Ground Lease Agreement dated as of [Closing Month] 1, 2025 by and between
the City and the Authority.

         “Ground Lease Term” means the duration of the leasehold estate created in the Project Site as provided in
Article IV of the Ground Lease.

         “Independent Counsel” means an attorney duly admitted to the practice of law before the highest court of the
State and who is not a full-time employee of the Authority, the City or the Trustee.

        “Lease Term” means the duration of the leasehold estate created in the Project as provided in Article IV of
the Master Lease.

       “Local Government Bonding Act” means the Local Government Bonding Act, Title 11, Chapter 14 Utah
Code Annotated 1953, as amended.

          “Net Proceeds,” when used with respect to (i) proceeds from policies of insurance required hereby (including
any self-insurance), (ii) any condemnation award, (iii) proceeds resulting from a default under a contract relating to
the acquisition and construction of a Project (including liquidated damages, if any), or (iv) the proceeds of any
liquidation of all or portions of a Project, means the amount remaining after deducting all expenses (including, without
limitation, attorneys’ fees and costs) incurred in the collection of such proceeds or award from the gross proceeds
thereof.

       “Nonprofit Corporation Act” means the Utah Revised Nonprofit Corporation Act, Title 16, Chapter 6a, Utah
Code Annotated 1953, as amended.

         “Original Term” means the initial portion of the Lease Term which terminated on June 30, 2016.

         “Permitted Encumbrances” means, as of any particular time, (i) liens for taxes and assessments not then
delinquent, or which the City may, pursuant to the provisions of the Master Lease, permit to remain unpaid; (ii) the
Master Lease, including any security interests granted therein; (iii) utility access and other easements and rights of
way, restrictions and exceptions which the City Representative and the Authority Representative certify in writing to
the Trustee will not interfere with the operation of the Projects or impair the marketability of title to the Projects or
the general security provided for the Bondholders of the Bonds; (iv) the Indenture, the Security Documents and related
financing statements; (v) the ownership interests of the City in any real or personal property which is the subject of
any lease between the City, as lessor and the Authority, as lessee that is entered into in furtherance of any Project; (vi)
any mechanic’s, laborer’s, materialmen’s, supplier’s or vendor’s lien or right in respect thereof if payment is not yet
due under the contract in question; (vii) such minor defects, irregularities, encumbrances and clouds on title as
normally exist with respect to property of the general character of the Projects and as do not materially impair the




                                                          B-26
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
operation or marketability of title to the Projects; and (viii) any items contained in a Title Insurance Policy delivered
in accordance with the General Indenture.

        “Project Site” means the real property where the Project is to be constructed, as more fully described in the
Master Lease.

          “Purchase Option Price” means an amount payable, at the option of the City, at any time for the purpose of
terminating the payment obligation of the City under the Master Lease with respect to a Project and purchasing the
Authority’s interest in such Project, which amount, when added to the amounts then on deposit in the Bond Fund and
the subaccount within the Debt Service Reserve Fund with respect to such Project (other than moneys held by the
Trustee for the payment of the Bonds under the Indenture not deemed Outstanding), shall be sufficient (i) to pay,
defease, retire and/or redeem all the Outstanding Bonds of the Series of Bonds issued to finance or refinance the
particular Project in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture (including, without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, the principal of and interest to maturity or earliest applicable redemption date of the relevant Bonds and
premium, if any, thereon, the expenses of defeasance and/or redemption, including escrow agent fees, if any, and fee
and expenses of the City, the Authority and the Trustee and all Security Instrument Costs, Security Instrument
Repayment Obligations, Reserve Instrument Costs and Reserve Instrument Repayment Obligations), (ii) in case of
redemption, to make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of the required notice of redemption; and
(iii) to make any necessary payment of rebate with respect to any Tax-Exempt Bonds to be paid, defeased, retired
and/or redeemed.

         “Refunding Bond Act” means the Utah Refunding Bond Act, Title 11, Chapter 27, Utah Code Annotated
1953, as amended.

        “Renewal Terms” means the optional Renewal Terms of the Lease Term as provided in Article IV of the
Master Lease.

         “Rentals” means all Base Rentals and Additional Rentals payable during the Lease Term under the Master
Lease.

Representations, Covenants and Warranties of the Authority

         The Authority will cause the Project to be acquired and constructed (subject to Permitted Encumbrances) and
will complete or cause to be completed the acquisition and construction of the Project in accordance with the plans
and specifications therefor. The Authority will lease the Project to the City as provided in the Master Lease. It is
understood by the parties to the Master Lease that the Authority shall have all rights, title and interest in the Project,
subject to Permitted Encumbrances.

          The Authority will not pledge the Base Rentals, the Additional Rentals, Purchase Option Price or any of its
other rights under this Master Lease and will not assign its interest in or encumber the Project except as provided
under the Master Lease or under the Indenture and the Security Documents. All property and moneys received by the
Authority from the City will, so long as no Event of Nonappropriation or no Event of Default shall occur, be applied
for the benefit of the City, and all property and moneys received by the Authority under the Master Lease with respect
to the Project and under the Indenture for the Bondholders of the Bonds will be applied for the proportionate benefit
of said Bondholders.

         Neither the execution and delivery of the Master Lease, nor the fulfillment of or compliance with the terms
and conditions thereof, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby conflicts with or results in a
breach of the terms, conditions or provisions of any restriction or any agreement or instrument to which the Authority
is now a party or by which the Authority is bound, or constitutes a default under any of the foregoing or results in the
creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance whatsoever upon any of the property or assets of the
Authority except Permitted Encumbrances.

         Except as otherwise provided in the Master Lease, the Indenture and the Security Documents, the Authority
will not assign this Master Lease, its rights to payments from the City or its duties and obligations under this Master



                                                          B-27
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
Lease to any other person, firm or corporation so as to impair or violate the representations, covenants and warranties
contained in the Master Lease.

         The Authority will not use any of the proceeds of the sale of the Series 2025 Bonds in a manner not authorized
by the terms of the Master Lease, the Indenture or the exhibits thereto.

Lease Term

          The original Lease Term commences as of the date of delivery of the Series 2025 Bonds and terminates at
midnight on June 30, 2026. The Lease Term continues, solely at the option of the City, beyond the expiration of the
Original Term for an additional one year, (the first “Renewal Term”) and for additional Renewal Terms thereafter
each of one year in duration (except that the final Renewal Term shall commence [July 1, 20___] and end on
[[Principal Month, Day], 20___]), upon the City having adopted a final budget in accordance with applicable law prior
to the end of the then-current Original Term or Renewal Term, as the case may be, that appropriates specifically with
respect to the Master Lease sufficient City Funds for the payment of Base Rentals and reasonably estimated Additional
Rentals to become due during the next following Renewal Term, it being understood that by budgeting and
appropriating such amounts, the City shall have elected to continue the Lease Term for the next following Renewal
Term and shall have given adequate notice thereof as contemplated by Section 17D-2-402(1)(b) of the Building
Authority Act. The terms and conditions during any Renewal Term shall be the same as the terms and conditions
during the Original Term, except that the Base Rentals shall be as otherwise specified in the Master Lease, for each
such Renewal Term, as such Schedule may be revised as provided in the Master Lease.

           Within five (5) days after the adoption of such final budget, the City shall deliver written notice to the Trustee
stating that the City has extended the term of this Master Lease for the succeeding Renewal Term, describing in
reasonable detail the actions taken by the governing body of the City (if such actions are then required to pay any
Rentals under the Master Lease or, if no such actions are then required, explaining the reasons therefor) to appropriate
funds sufficient for the purpose of paying the Base Rentals and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals (as provided
in the Master Lease) to become due during such succeeding Renewal Term. Unless the Trustee shall have previously
received the foregoing notice applicable to the next succeeding Renewal Term, the Trustee shall, at least 20 days prior
to the last day of each Fiscal Year, make written inquiry of the City as to whether the City has extended the term of
the Master Lease and whether the governing body of the City shall have made the appropriation necessary to pay the
Base Rentals and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals to become due during such succeeding Renewal Term. The
City shall deliver written notice to the Trustee as soon as practicable, but in no event later than the expiration of the
Original Term or the then current Renewal Term, stating (as the case may be) that: (i) the governing body of the City
has failed or refused to appropriate, specifically with respect to the Master Lease, moneys sufficient to pay such Base
Rentals and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals for the next succeeding Renewal Term and stating what actions
the City and its officials propose to take with respect to the Master Lease, the Projects and any budgetary procedures
for any Base Rentals and Additional Rentals that may thereafter accrue; or (ii) that the City is precluded from adopting
its final budget for the fiscal year in question due to the procedural requirements of State law described below.

           In the event the governing body of the City is precluded, solely as a result of notice, hearing or other
procedural requirements imposed by State law in connection with the adoption of a final budget, from adopting a final
budget on or prior to the last day of any Fiscal Year, no Event of Nonappropriation shall be deemed to have occurred
as a result of the failure to so adopt a final budget, provided that: (i) prior to the last day of such Fiscal Year, the
governing body of the City shall have adopted a tentative budget which includes a tentative appropriation of City
Funds sufficient to pay the Base Rentals and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals to become due during the
succeeding Renewal Term; (ii) prior to the last day of such Fiscal Year, the City shall have delivered to the Trustee
and any Security Instrument Issuer, a copy of the tentative budget adopted by its governing body and a notice stating
that it is the intention of the governing body to renew the Lease Term upon the adoption of the final budget; (iii) any
Base Rentals or Additional Rentals described in the preceding paragraph, and provided further that any Rentals which
become due and payable pursuant to the terms of this Master Lease prior to the adoption of such final budget shall be
paid by the City in accordance with the tentative budget adopted by the governing body of the City; and (iv) the
governing body of the City shall adopt a final budget on or before the last date allowable under applicable law that
includes the appropriation of City Funds required under the Master Lease to renew the Lease Term. The City shall
promptly file a copy of the final budget so adopted by its governing body with the Trustee.



                                                           B-28
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
Termination of Lease Term

         The Lease Term shall terminate upon the first to occur of the following events:

                   (a)     the exercise by the City of its option to purchase the Authority’s interest in all of the
         Projects, granted under the provisions of the Master Lease;

                 (b)      an Event of Default and the election of the Authority or the Trustee to terminate the Master
         Lease under the provisions thereof;

                  (c)      the discharge of the lien of the Indenture under the provisions of the Master Lease;

                  (d)      the expiration or termination of the Lease Term pursuant to an Event of Nonappropriation
         or under the conditions provided in the Master Lease; or

                 (e)      the last day of the Lease Term of the Master Lease, upon payment of all Base Rentals and
         Additional Rentals required thereunder.

Payment of Rentals by the Authority to the City

          Payments to Constitute Current Expenses of the City. The City and the Authority acknowledge and agree
that the obligation of the City to pay Base Rentals and Additional Rentals under the Master Lease constitutes current
expenses of the City payable exclusively from City Funds and shall not in any way be construed to be an obligation
or indebtedness of the City within the meaning of Sections 3 or 4 of Article XIV of the Utah Constitution, or any other
constitutional or statutory limitation or requirement applicable to the City concerning the creation of indebtedness.
No provision in the Master Lease shall be construed or interpreted (i) to require the governing body of the City to
appropriate any money to pay the Base Rentals, the Additional Rentals or the Purchase Option Price, or (ii) as a
lending of the credit of the City within the meaning of Section 29 of Article VI of the Utah Constitution. Neither the
City, nor the Authority on its behalf, has pledged the credit of the City to the payment of the Base Rentals, the
Additional Rentals, the Purchase Option Price, the Bonds or the interest thereon, and neither the Master Lease, the
Indenture nor the Bonds shall directly or contingently obligate the City to apply money, or to levy or pledge any form
of taxation, to the payment of the Base Rentals, the Additional Rentals, the Purchase Option Price or the Bonds or any
interest thereon except as expressly provided in the Master Lease. If the City fails to pay any Base Rentals or
Additional Rentals due under the Master Lease it shall immediately quit and vacate the Projects and its obligation to
pay Base Rentals or Additional Rentals under the Master Lease shall terminate.

         Payment of Base Rentals.

                  (a)       The City shall pay Base Rentals exclusively from City Funds. The City shall pay Base
         Rentals during the Lease Term in such amounts as shall be sufficient to pay principal and interest when due
         on the Bonds. The Base Rentals shall be payable directly to the Trustee in periodic payments at the times
         and manner and in the amounts as specified in the schedule of Base Rental payments attached to the Master
         Lease as shall equal the interest payments falling due on the Bonds on the next succeeding Interest Payment
         Date and the principal payments falling due on the Bonds either by regularly scheduled maturities or by
         mandatory sinking fund installment or redemption, on the next succeeding principal payment date, such that
         there shall be on deposit with the Trustee at least fifteen days prior to each principal and/or interest payment
         date on the Bonds an amount sufficient to make such payment. At the time of execution of the Master Lease,
         Base Rental payments for each payment date will equal the amounts set forth in the Master Lease (however,
         in the event the City does not ensure such payments are paid in full, it shall be deemed an Event of
         Nonappropriation or an Event of Default, as applicable). The City understands that the Base Rental Payment
         Schedule attached to the Master Lease may be revised from time to time based on the redemption of Bonds
         (other than mandatory sinking fund redemptions) or the issuance of any Additional Bonds or Refunding
         Bonds allowed under the Indenture. The City agrees to pay the Base Rentals in accordance with the Base
         Rental Payment Schedule attached to the Master Lease as it may be revised from time to time by such




                                                         B-29
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
         amounts as are necessary to reflect the redemption of the principal of certain Bonds or to pay the principal of
         the Additional Bonds or Refunding Bonds and interest on such Additional Bonds or Refunding Bonds.

                   In addition, in the event the market value of the amount on deposit in the Debt Service Reserve Fund
         is, for any reason, reduced below the Debt Service Reserve Requirement, the City shall, in the event it elects
         to renew the Master Lease during the following Renewal Term, and as a condition of renewal (but solely
         from City Funds), pay to the Trustee in two substantially equal semiannual payments additional Base Rentals
         during the Lease Term, in an amount sufficient to replenish the Debt Service Reserve Fund to the Debt
         Service Reserve Requirement. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Master Lease to the contrary, no
         payment of Base Rentals or Additional Rentals shall be required to be paid prior to the Completion Date of
         any one Project with respect to which such Rentals are being paid.

                  (b)      In the event that (1)(A) a portion of a Project (the “Completed Portion of the Project”)
         financed with a separate Series of Bonds is accepted by the City for use and occupancy under the Master
         Lease, and (B) the acquisition and construction of additional portions of the Project (the “Uncompleted
         Portion of the Project”) financed with one or more Series of Bonds (other than the Series of Bonds described
         in (A) above) have yet to be completed, and (2) an Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture) occurs under
         the Indenture due to the failure to complete the Uncompleted Portion of the Project, the City and the Authority
         hereby agree, as follows:

                           (i)       The City consents to the provisions of the Indenture governing such an Event of
                  Default; and

                           (ii)     The City shall, subject to the occurrence of an Event of Nonappropriation,
                  continue to pay Base Rentals and Additional Rentals with respect to the Completed Portion of the
                  Project, and the Master Lease shall remain in full force and effect with respect to the Completed
                  Portion of the Project.

                   (c)      In the event that less than all of any one Project is initially made available for use,
         occupancy and operation and the City accepts a portion of any one Project for its use, occupancy and
         operation pending final completion of the remainder of any one such Project, any Base Rentals paid by the
         City with respect to any one such Project shall be prorated in a manner so as to reflect the fair rental value of
         that portion of the Project then available for use, occupancy or operation by the City and so used, occupied
         or operated.

                  (d)       The amount of the Base Rentals otherwise payable by the City under the Master Lease shall
         be reduced by an amount equal to (i) any earnings on the investment of the Bond Fund, (ii) any moneys
         transferred to the Bond Fund from the Debt Service Reserve Fund pursuant to the Indenture (other than from
         draws on a Reserve Instrument), and (iii) any Direct Payments on deposit with the Trustee in the Bond Fund.
         In the event that Direct Payments are deposited with the Trustee after the City has made the related payment
         of Base Rentals, the City may elect to have the Trustee return to the City an amount equal to such Direct
         Payments (so long as the amount remaining on deposit in the Bond Fund continues to be sufficient to pay
         principal and interest next due on the Bonds, if such payment is requested prior to the related Interest Payment
         Date) or to have the Trustee retain the Direct Payments in the Bond Fund and take the credit with respect to
         the next required Base Rentals payment. Each payment of Base Rentals shall be in consideration for the use
         of the Projects by the City during the applicable period commencing on the Bond Payment Date next
         preceding the Bond Payment Date to which such Base Rental payment is attributable and for the option to
         purchase the Projects granted in the Master Lease. Each payment of Base Rentals shall be in consideration
         for the use of the Projects by the City during the applicable period commencing on the Bond Payment Date
         to which such Base Rental payment is attributable and for the option to purchase the Projects granted in the
         Master Lease.

                  (e)     The payments of Base Rentals and Additional Rentals under the Master Lease for each
         Renewal Term during the term of the Master Lease shall constitute the total Rentals which are payable for
         said Renewal Term and shall be paid by the City for and in consideration of the right of use, occupancy and
         operation of the Projects and the continued quiet use and enjoyment of the Projects for and during said


                                                          B-30
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
         Renewal Term. The parties to the Master Lease agree that such total Rentals will represent the fair rental
         value of the Projects. In making such determination, the parties will give consideration to the costs of
         financing the Costs of Acquisition and Construction of the Projects, the uses and purposes of the Projects and
         the benefits therefrom which will accrue to the parties to the Master Lease and the general public by reason
         of the Projects.

                  (f)        Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City may not elect to renew the Master Lease in part
         and in the event it desires to renew the Master Lease must continue to pay City Funds in an amount sufficient
         to pay Base Rentals attributable to all of the Projects which have been delivered for occupancy or use (or any
         portion thereof, in proportion to such available portion).

                   (g)      It is understood and agreed by the City that, subject to the terms of the Master Lease and
         the Indenture, all Base Rentals payable under the Master Lease by the City, as well as the Purchase Option
         Price, if paid with respect to any or all of the Projects, are assigned by the Authority to the Trustee for the
         benefit of the Bondholders as set forth in the Indenture. The City assents to such assignment. The Authority
         hereby directs the City, and the City agrees to pay to the Trustee at its principal office in Salt Lake City, Utah
         or such other office as designated by the Trustee, all Base Rentals payable by the City pursuant to the Master
         Lease and, if paid, the Purchase Option Price.

                   (h)      The amount of the Base Rentals and Purchase Option Price otherwise payable shall be
         reduced as appropriate to reflect any redemption of Bonds and/or the purchase of Bonds and the cancellation
         thereof in advance of their maturity. If at any time the amounts held by the Trustee in the Bond Fund and
         the Debt Service Reserve Fund (other than moneys held for the payment of Bonds not deemed Outstanding)
         shall be sufficient to pay at the times required the principal of and interest and premium, if any, on all of the
         Bonds then Outstanding, the City shall not be obligated to pay any further Base Rentals under the Master
         Lease.

                    (i)      As provided in Section 17D-2-401(2)(b)(i) of the Building Authority Act, the City is not
         required to make any payment of Base Rentals or Additional Rentals under the Master Lease until
         construction of the related Project or Projects are complete. In the event that a Project is not completed by
         the time that amounts set aside for payment of capitalized interest are expended, the City and the Authority
         shall (i) reallocate proceeds of the related Series of Bonds to make funds available for additional capitalized
         interest, (ii) seek other legally available funds for such purpose or (iii) issue Additional Bonds to finance
         additional capitalized interest; provided, however, the City may commence making payments of Base Rentals
         with respect to individual completed projects constituting a Project.

Payment of Additional Rentals with Respect to the Projects

         In addition to the Base Rentals and as part of the total consideration for the use of the Projects and the option
to purchase any or all of the Projects, and commencing upon the execution and delivery of the Master Lease and
continuing throughout the period that the City pays Base Rentals, the City shall pay or shall cause to be paid the
following Additional Rentals, exclusively from City Funds, during the Lease Term thereof as provided in the Master
Lease:

                  (a)     the annual fee of the Trustee for the ordinary services of the Trustee rendered and its
         ordinary expenses incurred under the Indenture;

                 (b)       the reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee and any paying agent appointed under the
         Indenture with respect to the Bonds for acting as paying agent as provided in the Indenture;

                  (c)     the reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee for extraordinary services rendered by it
         and extraordinary expenses, including the fees and expenses of its counsel, incurred as Trustee under the
         Indenture;




                                                          B-31
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
                 (d)      the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Authority relating to the Projects not
         otherwise required to be paid by the City under the terms of the Master Lease;

                   (e)       the costs of maintenance and repair of the Projects as required under the Master Lease;

                 (f)       the costs of taxes, governmental charges, utility charges, management and operations
         expenses, liens and encumbrances with respect to the Projects as required under the Master Lease;

                 (g)       the costs of casualty, public liability and property damage and worker’s compensation
         insurance with respect to the Projects as required under the Master Lease;

                   (h)      the amount of any tax or excise on the Base Rentals, Additional Rentals, Purchase Option
         Price or any other tax, however described, levied, assessed or imposed by the United States Government, the
         State or any political subdivision or any taxing authority thereof against the Authority;

                  (i)       an amount equal to any franchise, succession, capital levy or transfer tax or any income,
         excess profits or revenue tax, or any other tax, assessment, charge or levy upon the Base Rentals, Additional
         Rentals or the Purchase Option Price payable by the City pursuant to the Master Lease;

                  (j)     any amounts required to be deposited to the Rebate Fund established with respect to a
         Series of Bonds;

                 (k)      Security Instrument Costs, Security Instrument Repayment Obligations, Reserve
         Instrument Costs and Reserve Instrument Repayment Obligations; and

                   (l)      during the Original Term or any Renewal Term in which there is an insufficiency of Net
         Proceeds as described in the Master Lease, an amount equal to the insufficiency of Net Proceeds required to
         repair, replace, restore or modify the affected Project or Projects.

          The Additional Rentals specified in subsections (a), (b), (c) and (k) shall be payable to the Trustee and shall
be due and payable within ten days after notice in writing from said Trustee to the City stating the amount of Additional
Rentals then due and payable and the purpose thereof. Except as otherwise provided in the Master Lease or in the
Indenture, the Additional Rentals specified in subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i), shall be payable to the Authority
or directly to the person or entity with respect to which such costs or fees were incurred and shall be due and payable
at such time as the Authority or such person or entity shall require. Additional Rentals specified in subjection (j) shall
be determined by, or at the direction of, the City and deposited with the Trustee as required by Section 148 of the
Code.

Manner of Payment

        The Base Rentals, Additional Rentals and, if paid, the Purchase Option Price, shall be paid exclusively from
City Funds and in lawful money of the United States of America. The obligation of the City to make payment of the
Base Rentals and Additional Rentals required under the Master Lease and to perform and observe the other covenants
and agreements contained therein shall be absolute and unconditional in all events except as expressly provided
thereunder.

Nonappropriation

          In the event that sufficient City Funds shall not be budgeted and appropriated by the City, in a final budget
adopted within the time permitted by the Master Lease, for the payment of the (i) Base Rentals becoming due during
such Renewal Term, and (ii) such Additional Rentals becoming due during such Renewal Term which can be
determined with reasonable accuracy, then an Event of Nonappropriation shall be deemed to have occurred as of the
first day of such Renewal Term and the City shall not be obligated to make payment of the Base Rentals or Additional
Rentals provided for in the Master Lease beyond the last day of the Renewal Term preceding such Event of
Nonappropriation. Subject to the provisions of the next succeeding sentence, once the City has elected to continue



                                                            B-32
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
the Master Lease for a Renewal Term by budgeting and appropriating sufficient City Funds for the payment of Base
Rentals and Additional Rentals thereunder the City shall, as of the first day of such Renewal Term, be obligated to
pay such Base Rentals and Additional Rentals during such Renewal Term. If the City fails to pay any Base Rentals
or Additional Rentals due under the Master Lease, or upon an Event of Nonappropriation the City shall immediately
quit and vacate the Projects and its obligation to pay Base Rentals or Additional Rentals thereunder shall terminate.
The Trustee shall, upon the occurrence of an Event of Nonappropriation, have all rights and remedies to take
possession of the Projects as trustee for the benefit of the Bondholders of the Bonds and the Trustee shall be further
entitled to all moneys then on hand and being held in all funds created under the Indenture, less any moneys then due
and owing to the Trustee for services performed as trustee thereunder. All property, funds and rights acquired by the
Trustee by reason of an Event of Nonappropriation shall be held by the Trustee under the Indenture for the benefit of
the Bondholders as set forth in said Indenture until the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds are
paid in full and any excess shall thereafter be paid to the City.

Request for Appropriation

         During the Lease Term, the City covenants and agrees as follows:

                  (a)      to include in its annual tentative budget prepared by the appropriate officials acting on
         behalf of the City in accordance with applicable law an item for expenditure of an amount necessary (after
         taking into account any and all City Funds then legally available for such purpose), to pay the Base Rentals
         and reasonably estimated Additional Rentals (calculated pursuant to the Master Lease) for the Projects during
         the next succeeding Renewal Term; and

                  (b)      to take such further action (or cause the same to be taken) as may be necessary or desirable
         to assure that the final budget submitted to the governing body of the City for its consideration seeks an
         appropriation of City Funds sufficient to pay such Base Rentals and Additional Rentals for each such
         Renewal Term, including all such actions for such purpose as may be required under State law.

          The next inclusion in the City’s annual tentative budget shall be made under applicable law prior to the fiscal
year commencing [July 1, 2026], so that the Base Rentals and the reasonably estimated Additional Rentals payable
during such Renewal Term will have been appropriated for such purpose, and subsequent inclusions in each respective
tentative budget for appropriations by the City shall be made in each fiscal year thereafter so that the Base Rentals and
Additional Rentals to be paid during the succeeding Renewal Term will be available for such purposes as long as the
governing body of the City determines to approve such amount in the final budget as adopted. To effect the covenants
set forth in (a) above, the City hereby directs its budget officer, or any other officer at the time charged with the
responsibility of formulating budget proposals, to include in the tentative budget prepared annually by such budget
officer or other officer and submitted to the governing body of the City, in any year in which the Master Lease is in
effect, items for all payments required for the ensuing Renewal Term under the Master Lease. It is the intention of
the City that the decision to renew or not to renew the term of the Master Lease is to be made solely by the governing
body of the City at the time it considers for adoption of the final budget for each of its fiscal years and corresponding
Renewal Terms thereunder, and not by any official of the City, acting in his or her individual capacity as such. In this
connection, the City covenants and agrees that such budget officer or other officer shall not amend, modify or
otherwise change the appropriations made in any finally adopted budget for the payment of any Base Rentals or
Additional Rentals without the express prior approval of the governing body of the City.

Acquisition and Construction of Projects

         Agreement to Acquire and Construct the Projects. The City and the Authority agree that the Authority shall
cause the Projects to be acquired and constructed as provided in the Master Lease, all of which construction, shall be
made in accordance with the plans and specifications for such Projects as approved by the City. The City agrees that
in order to effectuate the purposes of the Master Lease, it authorizes on behalf of the Authority, to make, execute,
acknowledge and transmit any other contracts, orders, receipts, writings and instructions with any other persons, firms
or corporations and in general do all things which may be requisite or proper, all for the carrying out and furtherance
of the acquisition and construction of the Projects.




                                                         B-33
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
          The Authority agrees to carry out or to cause to be carried out the acquisition, construction and equipping of
any Project through the application of moneys to be disbursed from the Construction Fund by the Trustee utilizing a
requisition request complying with the requirements of the Master Lease.

         The Authority agrees to cause all Projects to be constructed with all reasonable dispatch, subject only to
delays caused by Force Majeure excepted.

         The City covenants in the Master Lease, to the extent permitted by applicable law, to use other legally
available funds and to seek additional legally available funds to the extent necessary to complete the acquisition,
construction and equipping of any Project as required in the Master Lease, or to make certain design changes in such
Projects to the extent necessary to complete the acquisition, construction and equipping of such Project with moneys
then available for such purposes in the Construction Fund.

           Establishment of Completion Date; Disbursement of Balance of Construction Fund. The Completion Date
with respect to any one Project shall be evidenced to the Trustee by a certificate signed by the City Representative and
the Authority Representative stating that, except for amounts retained by the Trustee at the direction of the Authority
for any Costs of Acquisition and Construction not then due and payable, (i) the acquisition, construction, installation
and improvement of such Project has been completed in accordance with the plans and specifications and all labor,
services, materials and supplies used in such acquisition, construction, installation and improvement have been paid
for, (ii) all other facilities necessary in connection with such Project have been constructed, acquired and installed to
their satisfaction, (iii) such Project is suitable and sufficient for its intended purposes, and (iv) all costs and expenses
incurred in the acquisition, construction and equipping of such Project have been paid. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
such certificate shall state that it is given without prejudice to any rights against third parties which exist at the date
of such certificate or which may subsequently come into being. Upon receipt of such certificate, the Trustee shall
retain in the applicable Construction Fund account an aggregate sum equal to the amount estimated by the City
Representative and the Authority Representative to be necessary for payment of the Cost of Acquisition and
Construction not then due and payable. All moneys then on hand in such the Construction Fund account in excess of
the amount to be retained shall be transferred by the Trustee, as set forth in a written direction of the Authority and
the City, to the Bond Fund to be used by the Trustee as provided in the related Supplemental Indenture.

Maintenance; Taxes; Insurance and Other Charges

          Maintenance of the Projects by the City. The City shall, at its own expense from available City Funds,
operate, manage, keep and maintain the Projects (or cause the Projects to be operated, managed, kept and maintained)
in good working order, condition and repair, including replacements of a capital nature when necessary, and including
periodic painting as reasonably determined by the Authority and in accordance with all operating and maintenance
manuals and all applicable laws, rules, ordinances, orders and regulations as shall be in effect from time to time of:
(1) any federal, state, county, municipal, or other governmental or quasi-governmental agencies and bodies having or
claiming jurisdiction thereof and all their respective departments, bureaus, and officials; (2) the insurance underwriting
board or insurance inspection bureau having or claiming jurisdiction thereof; and (3) all insurance companies insuring
all or any part of the Projects. The foregoing shall not be construed to prohibit the City from challenging the validity
or applicability of such laws, rules, ordinances, orders and regulations and to defer compliance until the challenge has
been completed.

          Modification of the Projects. The City shall have the privilege of remodeling any Project or making
substitutions, additions, modifications and improvements thereto, at its own cost and expense, and the same shall be
subject to the Master Lease, the Indenture and the Security Documents, and shall also be included under the terms
thereof; provided, however, that such remodeling, substitutions, additions, modifications and improvements shall not
in any way damage such Projects or cause it to be used for purposes other than those authorized under the provisions
of the Master Lease, and the Constitution and laws of the State; and provided, however, that such Projects, as
remodeled, improved or altered upon completion of such remodeling, substitutions, additions, modifications and
improvements made pursuant to the Master Lease shall be of a fair rental value not less than the fair rental value of
such Projects immediately prior to the remodeling or the making of substitutions, additions, modifications and
improvements.




                                                           B-34
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
          Taxes, Other Governmental Charges and Utility Charges. In the event that a Project or any portion thereof
shall, for any reason, be deemed subject to taxation, assessments or charges lawfully made by any governmental body
which may be secured by a lien against such Project, an Additional Rental, from and to the extent of City Funds, shall
be paid, or cause to be paid, by the City equal to the amount of all such taxes, assessments and governmental charges
then due. With respect to special assessments or other governmental charges which may be lawfully paid in
installments over a period of years, the City shall be obligated to provide for Additional Rentals only for such
installments as are required to be paid during that period that the City is obligated to pay Base Rentals. The City shall
not allow any liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges to exist (including, without limitation, any taxes
levied which, if not paid, will become a charge on the rentals and receipts prior to or on a parity with the charge
thereon and the pledge and assignment thereof to be created and made in the Indenture), or any interest therein
(including the interest of the Authority) on the rentals and revenues derived therefrom or hereunder. The City shall
also pay, or shall cause to be paid, as Additional Rentals, from and to the extent of available City Funds, as the same
respectively become due, all gas, water, steam, electricity, heat, power, telephone, utility and other charges incurred
in the operation, maintenance, use, occupancy and upkeep of the Projects.

         As long as the City is in possession of the Projects and except as otherwise provided in the Master Lease, it
shall keep it free and clear of all liens, charges and encumbrances (except Permitted Encumbrances and any
encumbrances arising through the Authority) and shall have the responsibility for all management, operations,
maintenance and repair of the Projects. The City in its discretion may discharge its responsibility under the Master
Lease by: (1) using its own employees; or (2) contracting for services; or (3) subleasing all or portions of the Projects,
subject to the provisions of the Master Lease and the Indenture; or (4) any combination of such methods. No such
contract or sublease shall place a greater burden on the Authority than provided in the Master Lease, nor infringe upon
rights granted to or retained by the Authority hereunder, nor violate or in any way impair the Authority’s obligations
under the Indenture or any other instrument, if any, securing any debt or borrowings by the Authority, all or
substantially all the proceeds of which are to be used to finance Projects.

          The City may, at the expense and in the name of the City, in good faith contest any such taxes, assessments,
utility and other charges and, in the event of any such contest, may permit the taxes, assessments or other charges so
contested to remain unpaid during the period of such contest and any appeal therefrom provided the City shall first
deposit with the Trustee, or in court, a bond or other security satisfactory to the Trustee pursuant to the Security
Documents unless the Trustee shall notify the City that, in the opinion of Independent Counsel, by nonpayment of any
such items the security afforded pursuant to the terms of the Master Lease, the Indenture and the Security Documents
will be materially endangered or the Projects or any portion thereof will be subject to loss or forfeiture, in which event
such taxes, assessments or charges shall be paid forthwith.

          Provisions Respecting Insurance. The City agrees to insure or cause to be insured, with the Trustee listed as
a Loss Payee, the Projects against loss or damage of the kinds usually insured against by public bodies similarly
situated, including, without limitation, policies of casualty and property damage, by means of policies issued by
reputable insurance companies duly qualified to do such business in the State with a uniform standard coverage
endorsement limited only as may be provided in the standard form of extended coverage endorsement at that time in
use in the State, in amounts that are not less than full insurable value of the Projects. The term “full insurable value”
as used in the Master Lease shall mean the actual replacement value, or at the option of the City any lesser amount
which is equal to or greater than the principal amount of all of the Bonds then Outstanding of the Series which financed
said Projects (or applicable portions thereof in case said Series of Bonds financed more than one Project).
Alternatively, the City may insure or cause to be insured under a blanket insurance policy or policies which cover not
only the Projects but other properties in the amounts required by the previous sentence.

           Any insurance policy issued pursuant to the preceding paragraph shall be so written or endorsed as to make
losses, if any, payable to the Trustee. The Net Proceeds of the insurance required in the Master Lease shall be applied
as described under “Obligation of the City to Repair and Replace the Project” below or, at the option of the City, as
described in “Discharge of the Obligation of the City to Repair and Replace the Project” below.

         The City agrees to self-insure or to carry or cause to be carried public liability insurance with one or more
reputable insurance companies in amounts that are typically carried by governmental entities of the same size as the
City for property damage for any occurrence. In the event that the limits on governmental liability established by
Section 63G, Chapter 7, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, are increased, the amounts required by the Master


                                                          B-35
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
Lease shall be deemed to be increased to such higher amounts. If self-insurance is not utilized, the Authority and the
Trustee shall be made additional insureds under such policies.

Damage, Destruction and Condemnation; Use of Net Proceeds

           Damage, Destruction and Condemnation. If, prior to the termination of the Lease Term and the payment in
full of the Bonds (or the making of provisions for the payment thereof in accordance with the Indenture) (i) the Projects
or any material portion thereof shall be destroyed (in whole or in part), or damaged by fire or other casualty; or (ii)
title to, or the temporary or permanent use of the Projects or any material portion thereof or the Projects or any material
portion thereof shall be taken under the exercise of the power of eminent domain by any governmental body or by any
person, firm or corporation acting under governmental authority; or (iii) a material defect in construction of a Project
shall become apparent; or (iv) title to or the use of all or any material portion of the Projects shall be lost by reason of
a defect in title thereto, the City shall be obligated, from and to the extent of City Funds and subject to the provisions
of “Discharge of the Obligation of the City to Repair and Replace the Project” below, to continue to pay the amounts
specified in the Master Lease regardless of whether said Project or Projects shall have been accepted.

          Obligation of the City to Repair and Replace the Project. Subject to the provisions of the Master Lease, the
City, the Authority, and the Trustee shall cause the Net Proceeds of any insurance policies, performance bonds or
condemnation awards with respect to a Project or Projects to be deposited in the applicable Construction Fund account
if received before the Completion Date and in a separate trust fund under the Indenture if received thereafter. All Net
Proceeds so deposited shall be applied to the prompt repair, restoration, modification or improvement of said Project
or Projects by the City upon receipt of a requisition acceptable to the Trustee signed by the City Representative, stating
with respect to each payment to be made: (i) the requisition number; (ii) the name and address of the person, firm or
corporation to whom payment is due; (iii) the amount to be paid; (iv) that each obligation mentioned therein has been
properly incurred, is a proper charge against the applicable Construction Fund account or separate trust fund, and has
not been the basis of any previous withdrawal and specifying in reasonable detail the nature of the obligation,
accompanied by a bill or a statement of account for such obligation; and (v) such other documents and information as
the Trustee requires. The balance of any such Net Proceeds remaining after such repair, restoration, modification or
improvement has been completed shall be transferred to the Bond Fund to be applied to the payment of the principal
of, premium, if any, and interest on the applicable Series of Bonds, or if said Bonds shall have been fully paid (or
provision for payment thereof has been made in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture), any balance
remaining in such Construction Fund account(s) or separate trust fund shall be paid to the City. If the Net Proceeds
shall be insufficient to pay in full the cost of any repair, restoration, modification or improvement, the City shall, from
and to the extent of available City Funds, complete the work and pay any cost in excess of the amount of the Net
Proceeds. The City agrees that, if by reason of any such insufficiency of the Net Proceeds, the City shall make any
payments pursuant to the provisions of the Master Lease, the City shall not be entitled to any reimbursement therefor
from the Authority, the Trustee or the Bondholders of the Bonds nor shall the City be entitled to any diminution of
the Base Rentals and Additional Rentals payable under the Master Lease. The City further agrees that any repair,
restoration, modification or improvement paid for in whole or in part from such Net Proceeds shall be subject to the
security afforded by the Indenture, the Master Lease and the Security Documents, and shall be included under the
terms of the Master Lease.

         Covenant to Seek Appropriation of Insufficiency of Net Proceeds; Discharge of the Obligation of the City to
Repair and Replace the Projects. In the event that the Net Proceeds of any insurance policy, performance bond or
condemnation award shall be insufficient to pay in full the cost of any repair, restoration, or modification of a Project
or Projects required under the Master Lease, the appropriate budget officers of the City shall, within 30 days of notice
of such insufficiency, seek an appropriation from the City for an amount equal to any such insufficiency. In the event
that the City shall fail to appropriate, by the first day of the next Renewal Term following such request for an
appropriation, an amount at least equal to such insufficiency for such purpose, the obligation to repair and replace said
Project or Projects under the Master Lease may be discharged by depositing the Net Proceeds of the insurance policies,
performance bonds or condemnation awards made available by reason of such occurrence into the Bond Fund. Upon
the deposit of such Net Proceeds in said Bond Fund, the City shall have no further obligation for the payment of Base
Rentals and Additional Rentals thereunder with respect to said Project or Projects, and possession of said Project or
Projects as well as all rights created pursuant to the Master Lease and the interest of the City and the Authority therein
and in any funds or accounts created under the Indenture with respect to said Project or Projects (except for moneys
held in the Rebate Fund and for the payment of Bonds not then deemed Outstanding), shall be surrendered to the


                                                           B-36
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
Trustee, as trustee for the Bondholders of the applicable Series of Bonds. Thereafter, the Authority’s interest in said
Project or Projects may be liquidated pursuant to the provisions of and subject to the limitations set forth in the
Indenture, Security Documents and the proceeds of such liquidation and the Net Proceeds of any insurance policy,
performance bond or condemnation award so deposited in the Bond Fund, as well as all other moneys on deposit in
any fund created under the Indenture with respect to said Project or Projects (except moneys held in the Rebate Fund
or for the payment of Bonds not then deemed Outstanding), shall be applied to the redemption of the applicable Series
of Bonds on the next succeeding redemption date. Such redemption of the applicable Series of Bonds shall be made
upon full or partial payment of the principal amount of said Bonds then Outstanding and accrued interest thereon all
in accordance with the Indenture.

          Granting of Easements and Releases. As long as no Event of Default with respect to the Projects shall have
happened and be continuing, the City may at any time or times grant easements, licenses, rights of way and other
rights or privileges in the nature of easements with respect to any property or rights included in the Master Lease and
the Indenture, free from the security interest afforded by or under the Master Lease, the Indenture and the Security
Documents or the City may release portions of the sites on which a Project or Projects is located or existing easements,
licenses, rights of way and other rights and privileges with or without consideration, and the Authority agrees that it
shall execute and deliver and will cause and direct the Trustee to execute and deliver, any instrument necessary or
appropriate to confirm and grant or release such portion of the Project Site or any such easement, license, right of way
or other grant or privilege upon receipt of: (i) a copy of the instrument of grant or release; (ii) a written application
signed by the City Representative requesting such instrument and stating that such grant or release will not impair the
effective use or interfere with the operation of such Projects or any material portion thereof; and (iii) an opinion of
counsel to the City that such grant or release will not materially weaken, diminish or impair the security granted to the
Bondholders and contemplated hereby or under the Master Lease, the Indenture or the Security Documents.

Conveyance of the Projects

         (a)     The Authority’s right and interest in and to all of the Projects shall be transferred, conveyed and
assigned by the Authority to the City:

                 (i)       Upon payment by the City to the Trustee of the then applicable Purchase Option Price and
         upon giving not less than thirty (30) days prior written notice to the Authority and the Trustee; or

                  (ii)     Upon payment by the City to the Trustee of all Base Rentals and Additional Rentals
         required to be paid under the Master Lease during the Lease Term; or

                  (iii)    Upon the discharge of the lien of the Indenture.

           Under the Indenture, the Trustee shall agree to execute such documents and instruments as shall be necessary
to effect a release of the security interest granted by said Indenture or the Security Documents upon the payment in
full of all of the Bonds.

          (b)     The City understands that the Purchase Option Price may be revised from time to time based on
certain redemptions of Bonds (other than mandatory sinking fund redemptions or the issuance of any Additional Bonds
or Refunding Bonds authorized under the Indenture. In the event the City so elects to purchase all of the Projects as
provided in the Master Lease, the City agrees to pay such applicable Purchase Option Price (together with the other
amounts constituting the purchase price for the Projects as provided in the Master Lease) as it may be revised from
time to time by such amounts as are necessary to reflect the redemption of the Bonds or the issuance of Additional
Bonds or Refunding Bonds. Nothing in the Master Lease shall be construed to create any obligation of the City to
purchase the Projects.

         Release of a Project Upon Payment of Related Series of Bonds. In addition to the purchase option set forth
above, the Master Lease grants the City the option of purchasing a Project in advance of the final maturity of the
related Series of Bonds. So long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing under the Indenture
and so long as no Event of Default or Event of Nonappropriation shall have occurred and be continuing under the
Master Lease and the Security Instrument Issuer for the related Series of Bonds shall have consented thereto (which



                                                         B-37
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld) unless the related Series of Bonds have been legally defeased or refunded,
a Project may be released from the lien created with respect to the Bonds and the Indenture and the Master Lease and
transferred to the City (subject to Permitted Encumbrances and liens and encumbrances resulting from the failure of
the City to perform or observe the agreements on its part contained in the Master Lease or otherwise consented to by
the City), if (i) the City shall deposit with the Trustee the Purchase Option Price for such Projects; and (ii) there shall
have been delivered to the Trustee an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel to the effect that the release of
such Projects will not adversely affect the excludability of interest on the Bonds from federal gross income of the
owners thereof or the status of the bonds as Tax Credit Bonds, if applicable. The City shall be obligated to pay all
costs of the Trustee and the Authority in providing for the transfer and release of any Project or portion thereof.

          Conveyance on Purchase of Project. At the closing of any purchase of any or all of the Projects pursuant to
the option to purchase granted in the Master Lease, the Authority shall, upon receipt by the Trustee of the Purchase
Option Price, or upon the payment by the City of all Base Rentals and Additional Rentals required , or upon discharge
of the lien of the Indenture as the case may be, deliver to the City the following:

                  (a)    If necessary, a release by the Trustee of the lien under the Indenture and Security
         Documents, together with any other instrument necessary or appropriate to release any security interest
         granted by the Master Lease with respect to the Project or Projects to be released, the Indenture and the
         Security Documents.

                  (b)       All necessary documents conveying to the City good and marketable title to the Project or
         Projects to be released as it then exists subject to the following: (i) the right, title and interest of the City in
         such Project or Projects; (ii) those liens and encumbrances created by the City or to the creation or suffering
         of which the City consented; (iii) those liens and encumbrances resulting from the failure of the City to
         perform or observe any of the agreements on its part contained in the Master Lease; and (iv) Permitted
         Encumbrances, other than the Indenture, the Master Lease, the Security Documents and any financing
         statements filed by the Authority pursuant to the Master Lease with respect to the Project or Projects to be
         released or the Indenture.

         Relative Position of Option and Indenture. The purchase option granted to the City with respect to all of the
Projects shall be and remain prior and superior to the Indenture and may be exercised whether or not an Event of
Nonappropriation or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing under the Master Lease or under the
Indenture; provided, however, that such option must be exercised before the later of (i) ninety days after notification
in writing by the Trustee to the City of the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Indenture, or (ii) the ultimate
disposition of the Projects upon exercise of any available foreclosure remedy, and further provided that, as a condition
of the exercise of such option, the City must pay, in addition to the Purchase Option Price, any interest payment
deficiencies accruing from the date of the Event of Default and all Security Instrument Costs, Security Instrument
Repayment Obligations, Reserve Instrument Costs and Reserve Instrument Repayment Obligations.

Events of Default and Remedies

         Events of Default Defined. Any one of the following shall be an “Event of Default” under the Master Lease:

        (a)       Failure by the City to pay any Base Rentals or Additional Rentals required to be paid under the
Master Lease at the time specified therein, in the absence of an Event of Nonappropriation; or

          (b)      Failure by the City to observe and perform any covenant, condition or agreement on its part to be
observed or performed, other than as referred to in (a), for a period of thirty days after written notice, specifying such
failure and requesting that it be remedied, given to the City by the Trustee, unless the Trustee shall agree in writing to
an extension of such time prior to its expiration; provided, however, that if the failure stated in the notice cannot be
corrected within the applicable period, the Trustee shall not unreasonably withhold their consent to an extension of
such time if corrective action shall be instituted by the City within the applicable period and diligently pursued until
the default is corrected; or

         (c)      The City shall abandon any material portion of a Project; or



                                                           B-38
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
          (d)     The City ‘s interest in the Master Lease or any part thereof shall be assigned or transferred without
the written consent of the Authority, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except as permitted hereunder; or

          (e)      The City shall file any petition or institute any proceedings wherein or whereby the City seeks to be
adjudicated a bankrupt, or to be discharged from any and all of its debts or obligations, or offers to the City’s creditors
to effect a composition or extension of time to pay the City’s debts, or seeks a reorganization or a readjustment of the
City’s debts, or for any other similar release, or any such petition or any such proceedings of the same or similar kind
or character shall be filed, or instituted or taken against the City and the same shall not have been dismissed or
otherwise resolved in favor of the City within sixty days from the filing or institution thereof; or

         (f)      Dissolution of the Authority prior to the full repayment of the Series 2025 Bonds.

          The foregoing provisions are subject to the following limitations: (i) the obligations of the City to make
payments of the Base Rentals and Additional Rentals as provided in the Master Lease shall be subject to the occurrence
of an Event of Nonappropriation; and (ii) if, by reason of Force Majeure, the City shall be unable, in whole or in part,
to carry out any agreement on its part contained in the Master Lease, other than the obligations on the part of the City
contained in the Master Lease, the City shall not be deemed in default during the continuance of such inability. The
City agrees, however, to remedy with all reasonable dispatch the cause or causes preventing the City from carrying
out its agreement; provided, however, that the settlement of strikes, lockouts and other industrial disturbances shall be
entirely within the discretion of the City, and the City shall not be required to make settlement of strikes, lockouts and
other industrial disturbances by acceding to the demands of the opposing party or parties when such course is, in the
judgment of the City, unfavorable to the City.

         Remedies on Default. Whenever any Event of Default referred to in the previous section shall have happened
and be continuing, subject to the limitations contained in the Indenture and the rights of any Security Instrument Issuer
(so long as the Security Instrument Issuer is not in default under its Security Instrument), , the Trustee or the Authority
with the written consent of the Trustee, shall have the right, at their or its option without any further demand or notice,
to take one or any combination of the following remedial steps:

         (a)      Immediately reenter and take possession of the Projects;

         (b)      Exercise any rights or remedies as the Trustee may have under Indenture or the Security Documents;
or

          (c)      Take whatever action at law or in equity may appear necessary or desirable to enforce their or its
rights in and to the Projects, including, without limitation, the right to terminate the Lease Term.

         Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the City shall immediately quit and vacate the Projects and its
obligation to pay Base Rentals or Additional Rentals under the Master Lease shall terminate. Any moneys collected
pursuant to action taken under the Master Lease shall be paid into the Bond Fund and applied in accordance with the
provisions of the Indenture.

         Limitations on Remedies. No judgment requiring a payment of money may be entered against the City by
reason of an Event of Default under the Master Lease, except as expressly provided in the Master Lease. In the event
the security interest created under the Indenture, the Master Lease or the Security Documents shall be foreclosed
subsequent to the occurrence of an Event of Default, no deficiency judgment may be entered against the City or the
Authority.

         No Remedy Exclusive. No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Authority and the Trustee in the Master
Lease is intended to be exclusive, and every such remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other
remedy given under the Master Lease or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity. No delay or omission to exercise
any right or power accruing upon an Event of Default shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be
a waiver thereof, but any such right and power may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed
expedient.




                                                          B-39
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
                                           THE SECURITY DOCUMENTS

          The Authority under the Security Documents will irrevocably warrant, grant, transfer, convey and assign to
Trustee, IN TRUST, WITH POWER OF SALE, all of the Authority’s right, title and interest in the Project, including,
but not limited to the Authority’s interests in real property, rents, issues, profits, royalties, income, interest in leases
or subleases, options to purchase, easements, rights of way, proceeds of insurance or condemnation and tangible
personal property in order to provide additional security for the Authority’s payment obligations under the Bonds and
the Indenture. The Security Documents generally provide for the procedure by which the Trustee can foreclose on
and sell the Authority’s interest in the Project to pay the Authority’s payment obligations under the Bonds and
Indenture.




                                                           B-40
4915-1003-4018, v. 2
                                                  APPENDIX C

                               DEMOGRAPHIC AND ECONOMIC
                   INFORMATION REGARDING THE CITY AND SALT LAKE COUNTY


                                                     THE CITY

City Population

                          Year                       Population                Percent Change
                          2024                         30,588                      -0.17%
                          2023                         30,641                      -1.02
                          2022                         30,957                      -1.40
                          2021                         31,396                      -1.76
                       2020 Census                     31,960                       5.39
                          2019                         30,325                      -0.86
                          2018                         30,588                      -0.46
                          2017                         30,729                      -0.23
                          2016                         30,799                       0.20
                          2015                         30,737                      -0.08

(Source: U.S. Census Bureau. Years 2015 through 2019 and 2021 through 2024 are estimates as of July 1 of the year
given; 2020 is as of 2020 census.)


Construction Activity

         The following table summarizes the value of permit authorized construction for the City for the years shown
for both residential and commercial construction.

                                                                    Calendar Year
                                          2024            2023          2022            2021           2020
    New Dwelling Units                     61              71            22               4              1

    New Residential Value              $15,882,049    $29,232,906    $10,045,938     $1,782,375        $138,800
    New Nonresidential Value             3,080,385      5,373,585      3,002,916        229,430       1,531,741
    Additions/Alterations/Repairs        7,915,361     19,046,178     12,692,566         49,264       4,420,355
      Total Construction                26,877,795     53,652,669     25,741,420      2,061,069       6,090,896

(Source: University of Utah Bureau of Economic and Business Research.)




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                    C-1
                                             SALT LAKE COUNTY

         The following demographic information is provided solely as background information regarding Salt Lake
County (the “County”), the general area in which the City is located. The County is the economic and population
center of the State. Based on 2020 Census data, the County has approximately 36% of the total population of the
State. The State capital, Salt Lake City, is located in the County.

County and State Population

             Year                    County           % Change             State          % Change
             2024 Estimate          1,216,274           1.31%           3,503,613           1.75%
             2023 Estimate          1,200,544           0.70            3,443,222           1.54
             2022 Estimate          1,192,255           0.48            3,391,011           1.54
             2021 Estimate          1,186,513           0.11            3,339,738           2.08
             2020 Census            1,185,238           2.14            3,271,616           2.05
             2019 Estimate          1,160,437           1.02            3,205,958           1.66
             2018 Estimate          1,148,692           1.05            3,153,550           1.69
             2017 Estimate          1,136,719           1.48            3,101,042           1.95
             2016 Estimate          1,120,109           1.62            3,041,868           2.01
             2015 Estimate          1,102,273           1.13            2,981,835           1.53

             2010 Census            1,029,655              –            2,763,885             –

(Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Population Division.)
Note: The 2010 and 2020 Census are as of April 1 of those years; the annual population estimates are as of July 1 of
the year given. Estimates are subject to change.

Rate of Unemployment – Annual Average

                             Year          County              State          United States
                             2024           3.2%               3.2%               4.0%
                             2023           2.7                2.7                3.6
                             2022           2.4                2.4                3.6
                             2021           2.9                2.8                5.3
                             2020           5.3                4.8                8.1
                             2019           2.5                2.5                3.7
                             2018           2.9                2.9                3.9
                             2017           3.0                3.1                4.4
                             2016           3.1                3.3                4.9
                             2015           3.3                3.5                5.3

(Source: Utah Department of Workforce Services and the U.S. Department of Labor.)




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                    C-2
Economic Indicators in the County

 LABOR FORCE (1)                                       2024       2023        2022           2021         2020
 Labor Force (annual average)                        693,444    681,550     664,322        645,193      638,440
 Employed (annual average)                           671,267    663,016     648,471        626,701      604,567
 Unemployed (annual average)                          21,177     18,534      15,851         18,492       33,873
 Average Employment (Non-Farm Jobs)                  808,038    800,225     783,881        750,123      720,686
   % Change Prior Year                                 0.98       2.09        4.50           4.08         -2.24
 Average Employment by Sector:
 Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting              571         600         505           433          350
 Mining                                               3,476       3,419       3,101         2,711        2,704
 Utilities                                            2,755       2,674       2,621         2,540        2,613
 Construction                                        56,103      54,136      52,254        49,403       46,121
 Manufacturing                                       60,973      61,937      61,233        58,412       56,512
 Wholesale Trade                                     40,141      38,399      36,899        34,826       33,589
 Retail Trade                                        73,057      73,842      75,693        75,837       71,757
 Transportation and Warehousing                      50,964      50,935      48,540        46,635       45,470
 Information                                         23,435      24,260      24,535        21,586       20,493
 Finance and Insurance                               51,854      51,142      51,666        51,570       50,506
 Real Estate and Rental and Leasing                  12,889      12,605      12,320        11,964       11,551
 Professional, Scientific & Technical Services       75,991      75,975      73,906        67,717       62,213
 Management of Companies and Enterprises             16,896      16,780      16,336        16,041       16,533
 Administrative, Support, Waste
    Management, & Remediation                         50,008     51,294      52,504        50,714       50,478
 Education Services                                   68,665     66,619      65,262        62,248       63,779
 Health Care and Social Assistance                    93,640     90,862      86,331        83,898       81,223
 Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation                  13,230     12,260      11,306         9,691        8,178
 Accommodation and Food Services                      57,269     56,703      53,976        48,396       44,582
 Other Services and Unclassified Establishments       23,208     23,147      22,902        22,348       21,239
 Public Administration                                33,910     32,634      31,989        31,155       30,797
 Total Establishments                                 67,102     65,069      62,762        62,346       56,515
 Total Wages ($Millions)                             62,018.6   58,435.7    54,673.5      49,206.1     44,541.0

 INCOME AND WAGES                         2024            2023          2022             2021           2020
 Total Personal Income ($000) (2)          n/a         $85,126,342   $80,481,119      $76,747,291    $67,958,404
 Per Capita Income (2)                     n/a           71,787        67,827           64,694         57,253
 Median Household Income (1)               n/a           94,013        91,713           80,676         79,294
 Average Monthly Nonfarm Wage (1)        $6,396          $6,085        $5,812           $5,466         $5,150

 SALES & CONSTRUCTION                     2024            2023          2022             2021           2020
 Gross Taxable Sales ($000,000) (3)      42,782.1       41,950.6      41,687.3         37,173.7       31,377.7
 New Dwelling Units (4)                   4,093           8,824         8,864           11,037         10,660
 Total Construction Value ($000) (4)   3,565,252.3     4,463,195.5   3,992,958.0      4,343,554.3    4,122,671.6
 New Residential Value ($000) (4)      1,015,070.2     2,147,646.1   1,711,278.5      2,153,788.4    1,964,183.1
 New Nonresidential Value ($000) (4)    637,834.0       910,557.6    1,303,331.3      1,056,514.3     974,277.3

(Sources: (1) Utah Department of Workforce Services; (2) U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic
Analysis, last updated November 2024; (3) Utah State Tax Commission; (4) University of Utah Ivory-Boyer
Construction Database; Total Construction Value includes additions/alterations/repairs.)



4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                   C-3
Major Employers in the County
                       Company                                                 Industry                    Employment Range
 University of Utah                                        Higher Education                                     20,000+
 Intermountain Health Care                                 Health Care                                          20,000+
 State of Utah                                             State Government                                  10,000-14,999
 Granite School District                                   Public Education                                   7,000-9,999
 Jordan School District                                    Public Education                                   7,000-9,999
 Salt Lake County                                          Local Government                                   5,000-6,999
 Amazon.com                                                Couriers                                           5,000-6,999
 Wal-Mart                                                  Warehouse Clubs & Supercenters                     5,000-6,999
 Delta Airlines                                            Air Transportation                                 5,000-6,999
 Canyons School District                                   Public Education                                   4,000-4,999
 ARUP Laboratories                                         Medical Laboratories                               4,000-4,999
 Salt Lake City                                            Local Government                                   3,000-3,999
 Department of Veterans Affairs                            Health Care                                        3,000-3,999
 Smiths Food & Drug                                        Grocery Stores                                     3,000-3,999
 United Parcel Service                                     Postal Service                                     3,000-3,999
 Salt Lake City School District                            Public Education                                   3,000-3,999
 Zions Bancorporation N A                                  Financial Services                                 3,000-3,999
 US Postal Service                                         Postal Service                                     2,000-2,999
 Biofire Diagnostics, LLC                                  Medical Research                                   2,000-2,999
 Salt Lake Community College                               Higher Education                                   2,000-2,999
 L3 Technologies                                           Manufacturing                                      2,000-2,999
 Skywest Airlines                                          Air Transportation                                 2,000-2,999
 Kennecott Utah Copper                                     Mining                                             2,000-2,999
 Harmons                                                   Grocery Stores                                     2,000-2,999
 Mountain America Credit Union                             Financial Services                                 2,000-2,999
 Utah Transit Authority                                    Public Transportation                              2,000-2,999
 Northrop Grumman Corp.                                    Aerospace Manufacturing                            2,000-2,999
 Discover Products Inc.                                    Financial Services                                 2,000-2,999
 Costco Wholesale                                          Warehouse Clubs & Supercenters                     2,000-2,999
 Merit Medical Systems                                     Health Care                                        2,000-2,999
 Wells Fargo Bank                                          Financial Services                                 2,000-2,999
 Select Health                                             Medical Insurance Carriers                         1,000-1,999
 Fidelity Brokerage Services                               Financial Services                                 1,000-1,999
 Goldman Sachs and Co.                                     Nondepository Credit Intermediation                1,000-1,999
 Maverik Country Stores                                    Gasoline Stations with Convenience Stores          1,000-1,999
 St Marks Hospital                                         Hospitals                                          1,000-1,999
 The Home Depot                                            Home Centers                                       1,000-1,999
 McDonald's                                                Limited-Service Restaurants                        1,000-1,999
 Core Innovative Solutions                                 Residential Property Managers                      1,000-1,999
 Edwards Lifesciences                                      Medical Instrument Manufacturing                   1,000-1,999
 Catholic Health Initiatives                               Colorado Hospitals                                 1,000-1,999
 Target                                                    Warehouse Clubs/Supercenters                       1,000-1,999
 Becton, Dickinson and Company                             Medical Instrument Manufacturing                   1,000-1,999
 Snowbird Operations                                       Hotels                                             1,000-1,999
 Swire Pacific Holdings                                    Grocery Merchant Wholesalers                       1,000-1,999
 R1 RCM                                                    Professional, Scientific & Technical Services      1,000-1,999
 Ultradent Products                                        Dental Equipment Manufacturing                     1,000-1,999
 Western Governor’s University                             Higher Education                                   1,000-1,999
 Ebay                                                      General Merchandise Retailers                      1,000-1,999
 Universal Protection                                      Security Guards & Patrol Services                  1,000-1,999
 Varex Imaging                                             Irradiation Apparatus Manufacturing                1,000-1,999
 Optum Services                                            Software Publishers                                1,000-1,999
 Cache Valley Electric                                     Specialty Trade Contractors                        1,000-1,999
 ARO                                                       Supermarkets                                       1,000-1,999
 Pacificorp                                                Utilities                                          1,000-1,999
 Sutter Health                                             Accounting Services                                1,000-1,999
 Dept of Defense                                           Federal Government                                 1,000-1,999
 Western States Lodging & Management                       Accommodations                                     1,000-1,999
 West Valley City                                          Local Government                                   1,000-1,999
(Source: Utah Department of Workforce Services; last updated November 2024.)



4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                             C-4
                                                    APPENDIX D

                          FORM OF CONTINUING DISCLOSURE UNDERTAKING

         This Continuing Disclosure Undertaking (the “Disclosure Undertaking”) is executed and delivered by City
of Holladay, Utah (the “City”), in connection with the issuance by the Local Building Authority (the “Authority”) of
City of Holladay, Utah of its $__________ Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025 (the “Series 2025 Bonds”). The Series
2025 Bonds are being issued pursuant to a General Indenture of Trust, dated as of [Closing Month] 1, 2025 (the
“General Indenture”), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture of Trust dated as of [Closing Month] 1,
2025 (the “First Supplemental Indenture,” and together with the General Indenture, the “Indenture”) each between the
City and [Trustee], as trustee.

         The City hereby acknowledges that it is an “obligated person” within the meaning of the hereinafter defined
rule and the only “obligated person” with respect to the Series 2025 Bonds.

         In connection with the aforementioned transactions, the City covenants and agrees as follows:

         Section 1.          Purpose of the Disclosure Undertaking. This Disclosure Undertaking is being executed
and delivered by the City for the benefit of the Bondholders and Beneficial Owners of the Series 2025 Bonds and in
order to assist the Participating Underwriter in complying with the Rule (each as defined below).

          Section 2.        Definitions. In addition to the definitions set forth in the Indenture or parenthetically
defined herein, which apply to any capitalized term used in this Disclosure Undertaking unless otherwise defined in
this Section, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:

         “Annual Report” means any Annual Report provided by the City pursuant to, and as described in Sections 3
and 4 of this Disclosure Undertaking.

         “Beneficial Owner” shall mean any person which has the power, directly or indirectly, to vote or consent
with respect to, or to dispose of ownership of, any Series 2025 Bonds (including persons holding Series 2025 Bonds
through nominees, depositories or other intermediaries).

         “Dissemination Agent” shall mean initially, the City, acting in its capacity as Dissemination Agent hereunder,
or any of its successors or assigns.

          “Financial Obligation” means a (a) debt obligation, (b) derivative instrument entered into in connection with,
or pledged as security or a source of payment for, an existing or planned debt obligation, or (c) guarantee of (a) or (b)
in this definition; provided however, the term Financial Obligation shall not include municipal securities as to which
a final official statement has been provided to the MSRB consistent with the Rule.

         “Listed Events” shall mean any of the events listed in Section 5 of this Disclosure Undertaking.

        “MSRB” shall mean the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, the address of which is 1300 I Street, NW,
Suite 1000, Washington DC 20005-3314; Telephone (202) 838-1500; and the website address of which is
www.msrb.org and www.emma.msrb.org (for municipal disclosures and market data).

         “Official Statement” shall mean the Official Statement of the Authority and the City dated [__________],
2025, relating to the Series 2025 Bonds.

         “Participating Underwriter” shall mean [Underwriter], as original underwriter of the Series 2025 Bonds.

         “Rule” shall mean Rule 15c2-12(b)(5) adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as the same may be amended from time to time.




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                      D-1
         Section 3.         Provision of Annual Reports.

          (a)       The City shall prepare an Annual Report and shall, or shall cause the Dissemination Agent to, not
later than 220 days after the end of each fiscal year of the City (presently June 30), commencing with the fiscal year
ending June 30, 2025, provide to the MSRB in an electronic format, the Annual Report which is consistent with the
requirements of Section 4 of this Disclosure Undertaking. Not later than fifteen (15) Business Days prior to said date,
the City shall provide the Annual Report to the Dissemination Agent. In each case, the Annual Report may be
submitted as a single document or as separate documents comprising a package, and may include by reference other
information as provided in Section 4 of this Disclosure Undertaking; provided that the audited financial statements of
the City may be submitted separately from the balance of the Annual Report, and later than the date required above
for the filing of the Annual Report if they are not available by that date. If the City’s fiscal year changes, it shall give
notice of such change in the same manner as for Listed Event under Section 5(f).

         (b)       If by fifteen (15) Business Days prior to the date specified in Section 3(a) for providing the Annual
Report to the MSRB, the Dissemination Agent has not received a copy of the Annual Report, the Dissemination Agent
shall contact the City to determine if the City is in compliance with Section 3(a).

          (c)       If the Dissemination Agent is unable to verify that the Annual Report has been provided to the
MSRB by the dates required in Section 3(a), the Dissemination Agent shall, in a timely manner, send a notice of a
failure to file the Annual Report to the MSRB in an electronic format.

         (d)       The Dissemination Agent shall:

                 (i)     determine each year prior to the dates for providing the Annual Report, the website address
         to which the MSRB directs the Annual Report to be submitted; and

                  (ii)       if the Dissemination Agent is other than an officer of the City, file a report with the City
         certifying that the Annual Report has been provided pursuant to this Disclosure Undertaking, stating the date
         it was provided and listing the website address to which it was provided.

         Section 4.         Content of Annual Reports. The Annual Report shall contain or incorporate by reference
the following:

          (a)       A copy of its annual financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles and audited by a certified public accountant or a firm of certified public accounts. If the City’s audited
annual financial statements are not available by the time specified in Section 3(a) above, unaudited financial statements
will be provided as part of the Annual Report and audited financial statements will be provided within 30 days after
availability to the City.

          (b)      An update of the financial and operating information of the type contained in the Official Statement
in the tables under the captions:

       [“DEBT STRUCTURE OF THE AUTHORITY AND THE CITY—Debt Authorization and Limit,”
“FINANCIAL INFORMATION REGARDING THE CITY—Taxable and Fair Market Value of Property in the City,”
and “—Historical Summaries of Taxable Values of Property.”] [For discussion]

          Any or all of the items listed above may be included by specific reference to other documents, including
official statements of debt issues of the City, as appropriate or related public entities, which have been submitted to
the MSRB or the Securities and Exchange Commission. If the document included by reference is a final official
statement, it must be available from the MSRB. The City, as appropriate, shall clearly identify each such other
document so incorporated by the reference.




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                       D-2
         Section 5.         Reporting of Significant Events.

        (a)      Pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5(a), the City shall give or cause to be given, notice of the
occurrence of any of the following Listed Events with respect to the Series 2025 Bonds in a timely manner but not
more than ten (10) Business Days after the event:

                  (i)       Principal and interest payment delinquencies;

                  (ii)      Unscheduled draws on debt service reserves reflecting financial difficulties;

                  (iii)     Unscheduled draws on credit enhancements reflecting financial difficulties;

                  (iv)      Substitution of credit or liquidity providers, or their failure to perform;

                   (v)      Adverse tax opinions or the issuance by the Internal Revenue Service of proposed or final
         determinations of taxability, Notices of Proposed Issue (IRS Form 5701-TEB) or other material notices or
         determinations with respect to the tax status of the Series 2025 Bonds or other material events affecting the
         tax status of the Series 2025 Bonds;

                  (vi)      Defeasances;

                  (vii)     Tender offers;

                  (viii)    Bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar proceedings;

                  (ix)      Rating changes; or

                  (x)      Default, event of acceleration, termination event, modification of terms, or other similar
         events under the terms of a Financial Obligation of the City, any of which reflect financial difficulties.

         (b)      Pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5(b), the City shall give or cause to be given, notice of the
occurrence of any of the following Listed Events with respect to the Series 2025 Bonds in a timely manner not more
than ten (10) Business Days after the Listed Event, if material:

                  (i)      Mergers, consolidations, acquisitions, the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the
         obligated persons or their termination;

                  (ii)      Appointment of a successor or additional trustee or the change of the name of a trustee;

                  (iii)     Non-payment related defaults;

                  (iv)      Modifications to the rights of the owners of the Series 2025 Bonds;

                  (v)       Series 2025 Bond calls;

                  (vi)      Release, substitution or sale of property securing repayment of the Series 2025 Bonds; or

                   (vii)    Incurrence of a Financial Obligation of the City or agreement to covenants, events of
         default, remedies, priority rights, or other similar terms of a Financial Obligation of the City, any of which
         affect security holders.

        (c)      Whenever the City obtains knowledge of the occurrence of a Listed Event under Section 5(b),
whether because of a notice from the Trustee or otherwise, the City shall as soon as possible determine if such event
would be material under applicable federal securities laws.




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                       D-3
         (d)     If the City has determined that knowledge of the occurrence of a Listed Event under Section 5(b)
would be material under applicable federal securities laws, the City shall promptly notify the Dissemination Agent in
writing. Such notice shall instruct the Dissemination Agent to report the occurrence pursuant to subsection (f).

         (e)     If the City determines that the Listed Event under Section 5(b) would not be material under
applicable federal securities laws, the City shall so notify the Dissemination Agent in writing and instruct the
Dissemination Agent not to report the occurrence pursuant to subsection (f).

         (f)     If the Dissemination Agent has been instructed by the City to report the occurrence of a Listed
Event, the Dissemination Agent shall file a notice of such occurrence with the MSRB in an electronic format in a
timely manner not more than ten (10) Business Days after the Listed Event.

         Section 6.        Termination of Reporting Obligation. The City’s obligations under this Disclosure
Undertaking shall terminate upon the legal defeasance, prior redemption or payment in full of all of the Series 2025
Bonds. If such termination occurs prior to the final maturity of the Series 2025 Bonds, the City shall give notice of
such termination in the same manner as for a Listed Event under Section 5(f).

         Section 7.        Dissemination Agent. The City may, from time to time, appoint or engage a Dissemination
Agent to assist it in carrying out its obligations under this Disclosure Undertaking, and may discharge any such
Dissemination Agent, with or without appointing a successor Dissemination Agent. If at any time there is not any
other designated Dissemination Agent, the City shall be the Dissemination Agent.

        Section 8.         Amendment; Waiver.         Notwithstanding any other provision of this Disclosure
Undertaking, the City may amend this Disclosure Undertaking and any provision of this Disclosure Undertaking may
be waived, provided that the following conditions are satisfied:

         (a)      If the amendment or waiver relates to the provisions of Sections 3(a), 4, 5(a) or 5(b), it may only be
made in connection with a change in circumstances that arises from a change in legal requirements, change in law, or
change in the identity, nature or status of an “obligated person” (as defined in the Rule) with respect to the Series 2025
Bonds, or the type of business conducted;

         (b)     The undertaking, as amended or taking into account such waiver, would, in the opinion of nationally
recognized bond counsel, have complied with the requirements of the Rule at the time of the original issuance of the
Series 2025 Bonds, after taking into account any amendments or interpretations of the Rule, as well as any change in
circumstances; and

         (c)       The amendment or waiver either (i) is approved by the Holders of the Series 2025 Bonds in the same
manner as provided in the Indenture for amendments to the Indenture with the consent of Holders, or (ii) does not, in
the opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel, materially impair the interests of the Holders or Beneficial Owners
of the Series 2025 Bonds.

         In the event of any amendment or waiver of a provision of this Disclosure Undertaking, the City shall describe
such amendment in the next Annual Report of the City, and shall include, as applicable, a narrative explanation of the
reason for the amendment or waiver and its impact on the type (or in the case of a change of accounting principles, on
the presentation) of financial information or operating data being presented by the City, as applicable. In addition, if
the amendment relates to the accounting principles to be followed in preparing financial statements, (i) notice of such
change shall be given in the same manner as for a Listed Event under Section 5(f), and (ii) the Annual Disclosure
Report for the year in which the change is made should present a comparison (in narrative form and also, if feasible,
in quantitative form) between the financial statements as prepared on the basis of the new accounting principles and
those prepared on the basis of the former accounting principles.

        Section 9.         Additional Information. Nothing in this Disclosure Undertaking shall be deemed to
prevent the City from disseminating any other information, using the means of dissemination set forth in this
Disclosure Undertaking or any other means of communication, or including any other information in any Annual
Report or notice of occurrence of a Listed Event, in addition to that which is required by this Disclosure Undertaking.



4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                      D-4
If the City chooses to include any information in any Annual Disclosure Report or notice of occurrence of a Listed
Event in addition to that which is specifically required by this Disclosure Undertaking, the City shall have no
obligation under this Disclosure Undertaking to update such information or include it in any future Annual Report or
notice of occurrence of a Listed Event.

         Section 10.       Default. In the event of a failure of the City or the Dissemination Agent to comply with
any provision of this Disclosure Undertaking, any Bondholder or Beneficial Owner of the Series 2025 Bonds may
take such actions as may be necessary and appropriate, including seeking mandate or specific performance by court
order, to cause the City or Dissemination Agent, as the case may be, to comply with its obligations under this
Disclosure Undertaking. A default under this Disclosure Undertaking shall not be deemed an “event of default” under
the Indenture, and the sole remedy under this Disclosure Undertaking in the event of any failure of the City or the
Dissemination Agent to comply with this Disclosure Undertaking shall be an action to compel performance.

           Section 11.       Duties Immunities and Liabilities of Dissemination Agent. The Dissemination Agent shall
have only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Disclosure Undertaking, and the City agrees to indemnify and
save the Dissemination Agent, its officers, directors, employees and agents, harmless against any loss, expense and
liabilities which it may incur arising out of or in the exercise or performance of its powers and duties hereunder,
including the costs and expenses (including attorneys’ fees) of defending against any claim of liability, but excluding
liabilities due to the Dissemination Agent’s gross negligence or willful misconduct. The obligations of the City under
this Section shall survive resignation or removal of the Dissemination Agent and payment of the Series 2025 Bonds.

         Section 12.      Beneficiaries. This Disclosure Undertaking shall inure solely to the benefit of the City, the
Dissemination Agent, the Participating Underwriter and the Holders and Beneficial Owners from time to time of the
Series 2025 Bonds, and shall create no rights in any other person or entity.

         Date: __________, 2025.

                                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY, UTAH


                                                       By:
                                                                                    Mayor




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                     D-5
                                                     APPENDIX E

                                    FORM OF OPINION OF BOND COUNSEL

          Upon the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds, Gilmore & Bell, P.C., Bond Counsel to the Authority, proposes
to issue its approving opinion in substantially the following form.

         Re:      Local Building Authority of City of Holladay, Utah $__________ Lease Revenue Bonds, Series
                  2025

           We have acted as bond counsel to the Local Building Authority of City of Holladay, Utah (the “Authority”)
in connection with the issuance by the Authority of its $__________ Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2025 (the “Series
2025 Bonds”). The Series 2025 Bonds are being issued pursuant to (i) resolutions adopted on September 18, 2025,
by the governing body of the Authority and a resolution of the City Council of City of Holladay, Utah (the “City”),
adopted on September 18, 2025, and (ii) a General Indenture of Trust dated as of [Closing Month] 1, 2025 (the
“General Indenture”), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture of Trust dated as of [Closing Month] 1,
2025 (the “First Supplemental Indenture” and together with the General Indenture, the “Indenture”), each between the
Authority and [Trustee], as trustee. Proceeds of the Series 2025 Bonds will be used by the Authority to finance (a) the
acquisition and construction of a City park and recreation facility and all related improvements and (b) the renovation,
retrofit, and improvements of a city hall including seismic upgrades and all related improvements (the “Project”) and
(b) pay the costs of issuing the Series 2025 Bonds.

          The Project has been leased by the Authority to the City on an annually renewable basis and with an option
to purchase, exercisable by the City, pursuant to the terms of a Master Lease Agreement dated as of [Closing Month]
1, 2025 (the “Lease”) between the Authority and the City. Payments by the City under the Lease may be made only
from funds which are budgeted and appropriated by the City for such purpose. Except to the extent payable from the
proceeds of the Series 2025 Bonds and income from the investment thereof, the proceeds of certain insurance policies,
performance bonds, condemnation awards and liquidation proceeds, if any, the Series 2025 Bonds are payable solely
from, and are secured by a pledge of, rentals derived by the Authority under the Lease. The Indenture provides that
the Series 2025 Bonds and the interest thereon (i) are not general obligations, but are special, limited obligations of
the Authority, (ii) do not constitute an indebtedness of the City within the meaning of any constitutional provision or
statutory limitation, and (iii) do not constitute or give rise to a pecuniary liability of the City or a charge against the
general credit or taxing powers of the City. Neither the City nor the Authority on its behalf has pledged the credit of
the City to the payment of the Series 2025 Bonds or the interest thereon or rentals under the Lease.

         We have examined the law and such certified proceedings and other documents as we deem necessary to
render this opinion. As to questions of fact material to our opinion, we have relied upon the certified proceedings and
other certifications of public officials furnished to us without undertaking to verify the same by independent
investigation. Our opinion is limited to the matters expressly set forth herein, and we express no opinion concerning
any other matters.

         Based on our examination and the foregoing, we are of the opinion as of the date hereof and under existing
law, as follows:

         1.       The Lease has been authorized, executed and delivered by the City and the Authority, and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation enforceable against the City and the Authority.

        2.       The Indenture has been authorized, executed and delivered by the Authority and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation enforceable against the Authority.

          3.       The Series 2025 Bonds have been authorized by the Authority, executed and delivered by authorized
officials of the Authority and are valid and binding special, limited obligations of the Authority, and the Series 2025
Bonds do not constitute a general obligation indebtedness of the Authority or the City within the meaning of any State
of Utah constitutional provision or statutory limitation, or a charge against the general credit of the Authority or the
City.



4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                       E-1
          4.        The interest on the Series 2025 Bonds [(including any original issue discount properly allocable to
an owner thereof)] (i) is excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes and (ii) is not an item of tax
preference for purposes of computing the federal alternative minimum tax. The opinions set forth in this paragraph
are subject to the condition that the Authority and the City comply with all requirements of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended, that must be satisfied subsequent to the issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds in order that interest
thereon be, or continue to be, excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes. The Authority and the
City have covenanted to comply with all of these requirements. Failure to comply with certain of these requirements
may cause the interest on the Series 2025 Bonds to be included in gross income for federal income tax purposes
retroactive to the date of issuance of the Series 2025 Bonds.

         5.       The interest on the Series 2025 Bonds is exempt from State of Utah individual income taxes.

         We express no opinion herein regarding the accuracy, completeness or sufficiency of the Official Statement
or any other offering material relating to the Series 2025 Bonds.

          The rights of the holders of the Series 2025 Bonds and the enforceability thereof and of the documents
identified in this opinion may be subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, arrangement, fraudulent
conveyance, moratorium, and other similar laws affecting creditors’ rights heretofore or hereafter enacted to the extent
applicable, and their enforcement may be subject to the application of equitable principles and the exercise of judicial
discretion in appropriate cases.

          This opinion is given as of its date, and we assume no obligation to revise or supplement this opinion to
reflect any facts or circumstances that may come to our attention or any changes in law that may occur after the date
of this opinion.

                                                       Respectfully submitted,




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                      E-2
                                                    APPENDIX F

                         PROVISIONS REGARDING BOOK-ENTRY ONLY SYSTEM

         DTC will act as securities depository for the Series 2025 Bonds. The Series 2025 Bonds will be issued as
fully-registered securities registered in the name of Cede & Co. (DTC’s partnership nominee) or such other name as
may be requested by an authorized representative of DTC. One fully-registered Bond certificate will be issued for
each maturity of the Series 2025 Bonds, each in the aggregate principal amount of such maturity, and will be deposited
with DTC or its agent.

          DTC, the world’s largest depository, is a limited-purpose trust company organized under the New York
Banking Law, a “banking organization” within the meaning of the New York Banking Law, a member of the Federal
Reserve System, a “clearing corporation” within the meaning of the New York Uniform Commercial Code, and a
“clearing agency” registered pursuant to the provisions of section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. DTC
holds and provides asset servicing for over 3.5 million issues of U.S. and non-U.S. equity issues, corporate and
municipal debt issues, and money market instruments (from over 100 countries) that DTC’s participants (“Direct
Participants”) deposit with DTC. DTC also facilitates the post-trade settlement among Direct Participants of sales
and other securities transactions in deposited securities, through electronic computerized book-entry transfers and
pledges between Direct Participants’ accounts. This eliminates the need for physical movement of securities
certificates. Direct Participants include both U.S. and non-U.S. securities brokers and dealers, banks, trust companies,
clearing corporations and certain other organizations. DTC is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Depository Trust &
Clearing Corporation (“DTCC”). DTCC is the holding company for DTC, National Securities Clearing Corporation
and Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, all of which are registered clearing agencies. DTCC is owned by the users
of its regulated subsidiaries. Access to the DTC system is also available to others such as both U.S. and non-U.S.
securities brokers and dealers, banks, trust companies, and clearing corporations that clear through or maintain a
custodial relationship with a Direct Participant, either directly or indirectly (“Indirect Participants”). DTC has S&P
Global’s rating of AA+. The DTC Rules applicable to its Participants are on file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. More information about DTC can be found at www.dtcc.com.

         Purchases of Series 2025 Bonds under the DTC system must be made by or through Direct Participants,
which will receive a credit for the Series 2025 Bonds on DTC’s records. The ownership interest of each actual
purchaser of each Bond (“Beneficial Owner”) is in turn to be recorded on the Direct and Indirect Participants’ records.
Beneficial Owners will not receive written confirmation from DTC of their purchase. Beneficial Owners are, however,
expected to receive written confirmations providing details of the transaction, as well as periodic statements of their
holdings, from the Direct or Indirect Participant through which the Beneficial Owner entered into the transaction.
Transfers of ownership interests in the Series 2025 Bonds are to be accomplished by entries made on the books of
Direct and Indirect Participants acting on behalf of Beneficial Owners. Beneficial Owners will not receive certificates
representing their ownership interests in Series 2025 Bonds, except in the event that use of the book-entry system for
the Series 2025 Bonds is discontinued.

         To facilitate subsequent transfers, all Series 2025 Bonds deposited by Direct Participants with DTC are
registered in the name of DTC’s partnership nominee, Cede & Co., or such other name as may be requested by an
authorized representative of DTC. The deposit of Series 2025 Bonds with DTC and their registration in the name of
Cede & Co. or such other DTC nominee do not effect any change in beneficial ownership. DTC has no knowledge
of the actual Beneficial Owners of the Series 2025 Bonds; DTC’s records reflect only the identity of the Direct
Participants to whose accounts such Series 2025 Bonds are credited, which may or may not be the Beneficial Owners.
The Direct and Indirect Participants will remain responsible for keeping account of their holdings on behalf of their
customers.

         Conveyance of notices and other communications by DTC to Direct Participants, by Direct Participants to
Indirect Participants, and by Direct Participants and Indirect Participants to Beneficial Owners will be governed by
arrangements among them, subject to any statutory or regulatory requirements as may be in effect from time to time.
Beneficial Owners of Series 2025 Bonds may wish to take certain steps to augment the transmission to them of notices
of significant events with respect to the Series 2025 Bonds, such as redemptions, tenders, defaults, and proposed
amendments to the Bond documents. For example, Beneficial Owners of Series 2025 Bonds may wish to ascertain



4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                      F-1
that the nominee holding the Series 2025 Bonds for their benefit has agreed to obtain and transmit notices to Beneficial
Owners.

        Redemption notices shall be sent to DTC. If less than all of the Series 2025 Bonds within an issue are being
redeemed, DTC’s practice is to determine by lot the amount of the interest of each Direct Participant in such issue to
be redeemed.

         Neither DTC nor Cede & Co. (nor any other DTC nominee) will consent or vote with respect to Series 2025
Bonds unless authorized by a Direct Participant in accordance with DTC’s Procedures. Under its usual procedures,
DTC mails an Omnibus Proxy to the Authority as soon as possible after the record date. The Omnibus Proxy assigns
Cede & Co.’s consenting or voting rights to those Direct Participants to whose accounts Series 2025 Bonds are credited
on the record date (identified in a listing attached to the Omnibus Proxy).

          Redemption proceeds, distributions, and dividend payments on the Series 2025 Bonds will be made to Cede
& Co., or such other nominee as may be requested by an authorized representative of DTC. DTC’s practice is to credit
Direct Participants’ accounts upon DTC’s receipt of funds and corresponding detail information from the Authority
or the Paying Agent, on payable date in accordance with their respective holdings shown on DTC’s records. Payments
by Participants to Beneficial Owners will be governed by standing instructions and customary practices, as is the case
with securities held for the accounts of customers in bearer form or registered in “street name,” and will be the
responsibility of such Participant and not of DTC, the Paying Agent, or the Authority, subject to any statutory or
regulatory requirements as may be in effect from time to time. Payment of redemption proceeds, distributions, and
interest payments to Cede & Co. (or such other nominee as may be requested by an authorized representative of DTC)
is the responsibility of the Authority or the Paying Agent, disbursement of such payments to Direct Participants will
be the responsibility of DTC, and disbursement of such payments to the Beneficial Owners will be the responsibility
of Direct and Indirect Participants.

        DTC may discontinue providing its services as depository with respect to the Series 2025 Bonds at any time
by giving reasonable notice to the Authority or the Paying Agent. Under such circumstances, in the event that a
successor depository is not obtained, Bond certificates are required to be printed and delivered.

        The Authority may decide to discontinue use of the system of book-entry-only transfers through DTC (or a
successor securities depository). In that event, Bond certificates will be printed and delivered to DTC.

         The information in this section concerning DTC and DTC’s book-entry system has been obtained from
sources that the Authority believes to be reliable, but the Authority takes no responsibility for the accuracy thereof.




4915-1003-4018, v. 2                                      F-2
                                       CITY OF HOLLADAY

                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2025-17

         AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY AMENDING TITLE 7 OF CITY CODE
                           RELATING TO CODE ENFORCEMENT

       WHEREAS, as previously directed by the City Council, City staff has prepared policy
updates and technical amendments to Title 7 of City Code; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing and has determined that the
proposed amendments will serve the public interest;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Municipal Council of the City of Holladay,
Utah as follows:

        Section 1. Amendment. Title 7 of the City of Holladay Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein
by reference.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or posting
or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.

         PASSED AND APPROVED this __ day of September, 2025.

                                                  HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                                  By: ____________________________________
                                                       Robert Dahle, Mayor


[SEAL]                                            VOTING:
                                                  Ty Brewer                  Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Matt Durham                Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Paul Fotheringham          Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Drew Quinn                 Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Emily Gray                 Yea       Nay ___
                                                  Robert Dahle               Yea       Nay ___
ATTEST:

_____________________________
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
City Recorder
TITLE 7
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM
CHAPTER 7.01
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM
SECTION:
7.01.010: Short Title
7.01.020: Purpose
7.01.030: Scope
7.01.040: Existing Law Continued
7.01.050: Criminal Prosecution Right
7.01.060: Effect Of Headings
7.01.070: Severability
7.01.080: Civil Liability
7.01.090: General Rules Of Interpretation
7.01.100: Definitions Applicable To Title Generally
7.01.110: Acts Include Causing, Aiding And Abetting
7.01.120: Service Of Notice Requirements
7.01.130: General Enforcement Authority
7.01.140: Adoption Of Policy And Procedures
7.01.150: Authority To Inspect
7.01.160: False Information Or Refusal Prohibited
7.01.170: Failure To Obey A Subpoena


7.01.010: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT or "ACE"
program. This title shall also be known as title 7 of the code of ordinances of the City. It may
be cited and pleaded under either designation.


7.01.020: PURPOSE:
Code enforcement is vital to the protection of the public health, safety, welfare and quality
of life. Code enforcement is effective only when done quickly and fairly. An enforcement
system that allows a combination of judicial and administrative remedies is effective in
correcting violations.


7.01.030: SCOPE:
The provisions of this title may be applied to all violations of the City Code of the City of
Holladay or applicable state codes which occur within the City limits and such territory
outside the City limits over which the City has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
constitutional provision or law. This title establishes an additional remedy that may be
used by the City to achieve compliance with applicable codes.


7.01.040: EXISTING LAW CONTINUED:
The provisions of this title shall not invalidate any other title, chapter or ordinance of this
code, but shall be read in conjunction with those titles, chapters and ordinances and shall
be used as an additional remedy for enforcement of violations thereof.


7.01.050: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT:
The City shall have sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal judicial case
or pursue an administrative enforcement action for the violation of any of its ordinances or
applicable code requirements. The enactment of this title shall not be construed to limit the
City's right to prosecute any violation as a criminal offense. If the City chooses to file both
administrative actions and criminal charges for the same violation, no civil fees shall be
assessed in the administrative action, but all other remedies contained herein shall be
available.


7.01.060: EFFECT OF HEADINGS:
Title, chapter and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit,
modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of this title.


7.01.070: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion or provision of this title is, for
any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this title.
The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this title and each section,
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion or provision thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, portions or provisions be
declared invalid or unconstitutional. This section shall apply to all amendments made to
this title.


7.01.080: CIVIL LIABILITY:
By establishing performance standards or by establishing obligations to act, it is the intent
of the City Council that the City employees and officers are exercising discretionary
authority in pursuit of an essential governmental function and that any such standards or
obligations shall not be construed as creating a ministerial duty for purposes of tort
liability.


7.01.090: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
For purposes of this title:
 A. "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
  B. Unless otherwise specified, the terms "hereof", "herein", and similar terms refer to this
title as a whole.


7.01.100: DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE GENERALLY:
In the construction of this title, the following words and phrases shall be as defined as set
forth in this section unless a different meaning is specifically defined elsewhere in this title
and specifically stated to apply:
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION: A citation issued to a responsible person which gives
reasonable notice of a violation and the civil fee for such violation.
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING: A hearing held pursuant to the procedures
established by this title and at the request of a responsible person charged with a violation.
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDER: An order issued by a hearing examiner. The
order may include an order to abate the violation, pay civil fees and administrative costs or
any other action as authorized or required by this title and applicable state codes.
CITY: The City of Holladay, Utah, including the mayor, City Manager and all other
employees of the City, excepting employees of the court.
CITY MANAGER: The City Manager or their designee
CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Holladay.
DIRECTOR: The community economic development director or his/her designee.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: Any person authorized by the City to enforce violations for this
code of the City of Holladay or applicable state codes, including, but not limited to, land use
officers, police officers, building inspection officials, code enforcement officers, fire
marshal, fire officers and animal control officers.
HEARING OFFICER: A person appointed by the City Manager or his/her designee to preside
over administrative enforcement hearings. Seems like we use hearing examiner and
hearing officer interchangeably.
IMMINENT LIFE SAFETY HAZARD: Any condition that creates a serious and immediate
danger to life, property, health or public safety.
NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE: A document or form approved by the community development
department director or designee which indicates that a property complies with the
requirements set forth in a notice of violation.
NOTICE OF EMERGENCY ABATEMENT: A written notice that informs a responsible person
of emergency abatement actions taken by the City and the costs of those actions, and
orders payment for those costs.
NOTICE OF ITEMIZED BILL FOR COSTS: A written notice, itemizing the City's costs and
ordering payment of those costs.
NOTICE OF VIOLATION: A written notice that informs a responsible person of code
violations and orders certain remedial steps to correct said violations by a determined
deadline.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization or the manager,
lessee, agent, sergeant, officer or employee of any of them, or any other entity that is
recognized by law as the subject of rights or duties.
PROPERTY OWNER: The record owner of real property as shown on the records of the Salt
Lake County assessor/recorder.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: The person determined by the City who is responsible for causing
or maintaining a violation of this code of the City of Holladay or applicable state codes. The
term "responsible person" shall include, but is not limited to, a property owner, agent,
tenant, lessee, occupant, architect, builder, contractor or other person who individually or
together with another person is responsible for the violation of any provision of this code
of the City of Holladay or applicable state codes.
WRITTEN: Includes handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed or electronic
mail.


7.01.110: ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING AND ABETTING:
Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this title, it shall include causing,
permitting, aiding or abetting such act or omission.


7.01.120: SERVICE OF NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
 A. Methods Of Service: Whenever a notice is required to be given under this title, the
notice shall be served by one of the following methods, unless different provisions are
otherwise specifically stated to apply:
   1. Personal service;
   2. Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of a responsible person;
   3. Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property. The form of the
posted notice shall be approved by the director; or
 B. Failure To Receive Notice: Failure of a responsible person to actually receive notice
shall not affect the validity of any action taken hereunder if notice has been served in the
manner set forth above.
 C. Service Date: Service by regular mail in the manner set forth above shall be deemed
served on the seventh day after the date of mailing when mailed in the continental United
States. Service by regular mail to all other addresses shall be deemed served on the tenth
day after the date of mailing.
  D. Failure To Be Served: The failure of a person, other than a responsible person, to be
served notice in accordance with this section shall not affect the validity of any proceeding
taken hereunder.


7.01.130: GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
Whenever an enforcement official finds that violation of this code or applicable state codes
has occurred or continues to exist, he may undertake any of the procedures herein. The
director or any designated enforcement official shall have the authority to gain compliance
with the provisions of this code and applicable state codes subject to the provisions of this
title. Such authority shall include the power to issue notices of violation and administrative
citations, inspect public and private property, abate nuisances on public and private
property and to use any remedy available under this title or law.


7.01.140: ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES:
The City Manager shall establish policies and procedures for the holding of administrative
enforcement hearings, the appointment of hearing officers, and the use of the
administrative procedures herein by enforcement officials.
7.01.150: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT:
Enforcement officials are hereby authorized, in accordance with applicable law, to enter
upon any property or premises to ascertain whether the provisions of this code or
applicable state codes are being obeyed and to make any reasonable, lawful examination or
survey necessary to determine compliance with this code or applicable state codes. This
may include the taking of photographs, samples or other physical evidence. All inspections,
entries, examinations and surveys shall be done in a reasonable manner. If a property
owner or responsible person refuses to allow an enforcement official to enter property, the
enforcement official shall obtain a search warrant before entering the property.


7.01.160: FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully make a false statement or refuse to give his
name or address with intent to deceive or interfere with an enforcement officer when in
the performance of his official duties under the provisions of this title. A violation of this
section shall be a class B misdemeanor.


7.01.170: FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an
administrative enforcement hearing. A violation of this section shall be a class B
misdemeanor.




CHAPTER 7.02
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
SECTION:
7.02.010: Purpose
7.02.020: Administrative Citations
7.02.030: Contents Of Notice
7.02.040: Civil Fees Assessed


7.02.010: PURPOSE:
The City Council finds that an appropriate method of enforcement for violations of the
Holladay code and applicable state codes is by administrative citation. The procedures
established in this chapter shall be an alternative and in addition to those procedures set
forth in chapter 7.03 of this title.


7.02.020: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS:
  A. Warning Notice: Upon discovering a violation of this code or applicable state codes
that does not require a notice of violation, an enforcement official shall serve a warning
notice, containing the information required in the administrative citation, on the
responsible person providing ten (10) days to correct the violation.
  B. Administrative Citation: If the violation continues on the eleventh day after the
warning notice, an enforcement official shall serve an administrative citation on the
responsible person.
 C. Service: The administrative citation shall be served in the manner prescribed in
section 7.01.120 of this title.
  D. Signature Upon Administrative Citation: The enforcement official shall attempt to
obtain the signature of the responsible person on the administrative citation. If the
responsible person refuses or fails to sign the administrative citation, such failure or
refusal shall not affect the validity of the citation and subsequent proceedings.


7.02.030: CONTENTS OF CITATION:
Each administrative citation shall contain the following information:
 A. The date, location and explanation of all violations;
 B. Code sections violated;
 C. The amount of the civil fee imposed for each violation;
 D. An explanation of how the civil fee shall be paid, the time period in which the civil fee
shall be paid, and the consequences of failure to pay the civil fee;
 E. Identify the right to and the procedures for requesting an administrative enforcement
hearing; and
  F. The signature of the enforcement official and, if possible, the signature of the
responsible person.


7.02.040: CIVIL FEES ASSESSED:
 A. Due And Payable: Civil fees shall be due and payable immediately upon service of an
administrative citation.
  B. Amount Of Civil Fee: The civil fee for each violation listed on the administrative
citation shall be as identified in table 1, civil fees, in the consolidated fine schedule.
 C. Double Fees For Nonpayment: Civil fees shall be double if paid after ten (10) days but
within twenty (20) days of service.
 D. Triple Fees For Nonpayment: Civil fees shall be triple if paid after twenty (20) days
but within thirty (30) days of service.
 E. Payment Of Fee Not Excuse: Payment of any civil fee shall not excuse a failure to
correct a violation or any reoccurrence of the violation, nor shall it bar further enforcement
action by the City.
 F. Payable To City: Civil fees shall be paid to the City.




CHAPTER 7.03
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
7.03.010: Administrative Enforcement Hearings
7.03.020: Request For Administrative Enforcement Hearing
7.03.025: City Requested Administrative Hearing
7.03.030: Notification Of Administrative Enforcement Hearing
7.03.040: Appointment And Qualifications Of Hearing Examiner
7.03.050: Powers Of Hearing Examiner
7.03.060: Procedures At Administrative Enforcement Hearing
7.03.070: Failure To Attend Administrative Enforcement Hearing
7.03.080: Administrative Enforcement Order
7.03.090: Failure To Comply With Order
7.03.100: Appeal Of Administrative Enforcement Decision


7.03.010: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARINGS:
It is the purpose and intent of the City Council that property owners shall be afforded due
process of law during the enforcement process. Due process of law shall require adequate
notice, an opportunity to request and to fully participate in any hearing, and an adequate
explanation of the reasons justifying any resulting action. The following procedures are
intended to establish a forum to resolve and correct violations of this code and applicable
state codes fairly, quickly and efficiently while providing due process.


7.03.020: REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
 A. Filing: A responsible person served with one of the following documents or notices
shall have the right to request an administrative enforcement hearing. Such request shall
be filed within ten (10) calendar days from the date of service of one of the following
notices:
   1. Notice of violation;
   2. Notice of itemized bill for costs;
   3. Administrative citation; or
   4. Notice of emergency abatement.
  B. Notice And Information Provided: Said notice, including all information concerning
the responsible person's right to an administrative enforcement hearing, shall be provided.
 C. Request Filed With City Official: The request for an administrative enforcement
hearing shall be made in writing to the director of community development.
  D. Appointment Of Hearing Officer; Hearing Scheduled: As soon as practicable after
receiving the written notice of the request for an administrative enforcement hearing, the
City Manager shall refer the matter to an appointed hearing officer who shall schedule a
date, time and place for the administrative enforcement hearing.
  E. Failure To Request Constitutes Waiver; Waiver By City: Failure to request an
administrative enforcement hearing within ten (10) calendar days from the date of service
of any of the notices in subsection A of this section shall constitute a waiver of the right to
an administrative enforcement hearing. The right to appeal said failure may be waived by
the City upon showing of good cause.
 F. Failure To Request Hearing: If a responsible person fails to request a hearing after
being issued a notice of violation or administrative citation as provided herein, the
corrective action detailed on the notice of violation shall be considered the administrative
enforcement order pursuant to section 7.02.080 of this chapter.


7.03.025: CITY REQUESTED ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
The City may request an administrative hearing before the hearing officer. The request for
hearing shall be delivered in the same manner as specified in section 7.02.020 of this
chapter. The request shall identify with specifiCity the reasons for the request.


7.03.030: NOTIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
  A. Notice Served: Written notice of the date, time and place of the administrative
enforcement hearing shall be served to the responsible persons as soon as practicable prior
to its date.
  B. Method Of Service: The notice shall be served by any of the methods of service set
forth in section 7.01.120 of this title.


7.03.040: APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS OF HEARING EXAMINER:
  A. Appointment: The City Manager or his/her designee shall appoint a hearing officer(s)
to preside at administrative enforcement hearings.
 B. Qualifications: A hearing officer:
   1. Shall have no personal, financial or other conflict of interest in the matter for which
the hearing is being held;
   2. May be a City employee.


7.03.050: POWERS OF HEARING EXAMINER:
 A. Conduct Hearing: A hearing officer shall have authority to conduct an administrative
enforcement hearing for violations of this Code and applicable State codes.
 B. Continuance Of Hearing: A hearing officer may, for good cause shown by one of the
parties or if the hearing officer independently determines that due process has not been
adequately afforded to such party, continue a hearing.
  C. Subpoenas: At the request of any party to an administrative enforcement hearing, a
hearing officer may sign subpoenas for witnesses, documents and other evidence where
the attendance of the witness or the admission of evidence is deemed helpful or necessary
by the hearing officer to decide issues at the hearing. All costs related to the subpoena,
including witness and mileage fees, shall be borne by the party requesting the subpoena.
 D. Jurisdiction Of Officer: A hearing officer has continuing jurisdiction over the subject
matter of an administrative enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a
continuance; ordering compliance by issuing an administrative enforcement order;
ensuring compliance of that order, which includes authorizing the City to enter and abate a
violation; modifying an administrative enforcement order; or, where extraordinary
circumstances exist, granting a new hearing.
 E. Bond May Be Required: A hearing officer may require a responsible person to post a
cash performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative enforcement order,
but only if agreed to by the enforcement official handling the matter for the City.


7.03.060: PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
  A. Informal Hearing: Administrative enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in
nature. Formal rules of evidence and discovery shall not apply; however, an informal
exchange of discovery may be required. Any such request shall be in writing. Failure to
request discovery shall not be a basis for a continuance. Complainant information is not
required to be disclosed or released unless the complainant is a witness at the hearing. The
procedure and format of the administrative enforcement hearing shall follow general
guidelines of due process and any duly adopted policies and procedures.
 B. Burden Of Proof For Violation: A party alleging a violation of this Code shall bear the
burden of proof to establish the existence of a violation of this Code or applicable State
codes.
 C. Proof Established: Such proof shall be established by a preponderance of the evidence.
 D. Participation And Testimony: Each party shall have the opportunity to cross examine
witnesses and present evidence in support of his case. A written declaration signed under
penalty of perjury may be accepted in lieu of a personal appearance at the discretion of the
Hearing Officer. Testimony may be given by telephone or other electronic means.
  E. Open Hearings; Recording; Location: All administrative enforcement hearings shall be
open to the public and shall be recorded in the manner determined by the City. At the
discretion of the hearing officer, administrative enforcement hearings may be held at the
location of the violation.
  F. Representation: The responsible person shall have the right to be represented by an
attorney. If an attorney will be representing a responsible person at a hearing, notice of the
attorney's name, address and telephone number shall be given to the City at least two (2)
days prior to the hearing. If such notice is not given, the hearing may be continued at the
City's request, and all costs of the continuance shall be assessed to the responsible person.
 G. Defenses: The burden to prove any raised defenses shall be upon the party raising any
such defense.


7.03.070: FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
A responsible person who fails to appear at an administrative enforcement hearing shall be
deemed to have waived the right to such hearing, the adjudication of issues related to the
hearing, and the right to appeal, provided that proper notice of the hearing has been given
as provided in section 7.01.120 of this title.


7.03.080: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDER:
  A. Stipulated Agreement: A responsible person and the City may enter into a stipulated
agreement, which shall be signed by both parties. Such agreement shall be entered as an
administrative enforcement order. Entry of such agreement shall constitute a waiver of the
right to an administrative enforcement hearing and the right to appeal.
  B. Written Order: After all evidence and testimony are presented, the hearing officer
shall issue a written administrative enforcement order within ten (10) days that affirms or
rejects the notice or citation.
 C. Cease And Desist Order: A hearing officer may issue an administrative enforcement
order that requires a responsible person to cease and desist from violating this code or
applicable state codes and to take any necessary corrective action.
  D. Order Of Abatement: A hearing officer may order the City to enter the property and
abate all violations, including the removal of animals that are in violation of applicable code
requirements.
  E. Revocation Of Right To Possess Animals: A hearing officer may revoke an animal
license or the right to possess animals as provided in this code.
  F. Assessment Of Deadlines: As part of an administrative enforcement order, a hearing
officer may establish specific deadlines for the payment of fees and costs, and condition the
total or partial assessment of civil fees on the responsible person's ability to take necessary
corrective actions by the specified deadlines.
  G. Civil Fees: A hearing officer may issue an administrative enforcement order imposing
civil fees in accordance with the consolidated fine schedule. Such fees shall continue to
accrue until the responsible person complies with the hearing officer’s decision and
corrects the violation.
 H. Subsequent Review Hearings: A hearing officer may schedule subsequent review
hearings as may be necessary or as requested by the City to ensure compliance with an
administrative enforcement order.
 I. Bond May Be Required: A hearing officer may order a responsible person to post a cash
performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative enforcement order, but
only if agreed to by the enforcement official handling the matter for the City.
  J. Final Order: An administrative enforcement order shall become final on the date of
signing by the hearing officer.
 K. Order Served: A copy of the administrative enforcement order shall be served on all
parties by any one of the methods listed in section 7.01.120 of this title. When required by
this title, the director shall record the administrative enforcement order with the Salt Lake
County recorder's office.
 L. Monitor For Compliance: After a hearing officer has issued an administrative
enforcement order, the director shall monitor the matter for compliance with the
administrative enforcement order.


7.03.090: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER:
It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to fail to comply with the terms and
deadlines set forth in an administrative enforcement order. A violation of this section shall
be a class B misdemeanor.


7.03.100: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT DECISION:
  A. Petition For Review: Any responsible person adversely affected by an administrative
enforcement order made in the exercise of the provisions of this title may file a petition for
review in the third district court of Salt Lake County.
  B. Time Limit: The petition shall be barred unless it is filed within thirty (30) days after
the administrative enforcement order is final.
 C. Allegations: In the petition, the plaintiff may only allege that the administrative
enforcement order was arbitrary or capricious.
 D. Authority Of Court: The court shall:
   1. Presume that the administrative enforcement order is valid;
    2. Review the record to determine whether the order was arbitrary, capricious or
illegal; and
   3. Affirm the administrative enforcement order if it is supported by substantial
evidence.
  E. Records Submitted To Court: If appealed, the record of the proceedings including
minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a true and correct transcript of the proceeding
shall be transmitted to the reviewing court within thirty (30) days of the notice of appeal. If
the proceeding was tape recorded, a transcript of such tape recording shall be deemed a
true and correct transcript for purposes of this subsection.
  F. Limit Of Court Review If Record Available: If there is a record, court review shall be
limited to the record of the proceeding. The court may not accept or consider any evidence
outside such record unless that evidence was offered to the hearing examiner and the court
determines that it was improperly excluded by the hearing officer. The court may call
witnesses and take evidence if there is no record.
  G. Request For Stay Of Execution: The filing of a petition does not stay execution of an
administrative enforcement order. Before filing a petition, a responsible person may
request the hearing officer to stay an administrative enforcement order. Upon receipt of a
request to stay, the hearing officer may order the administrative enforcement order to be
stayed pending district court review if the hearing examiner finds such stay to be in the
best interest of the City.
CHAPTER 7.04
ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT
SECTION:
7.04.010: Administrative Abatement
7.04.020: Notice Of Violation
7.04.030: Requesting Hearings
7.04.040: Failure To Correct
7.04.050: Inspections
7.04.060: Authority To Abate
7.04.070: Procedures For Abatement
7.04.080: Procedures For Recordation
7.04.090: Notice Of Compliance
7.04.100: Prohibition Against Issuance Of Municipal Permits
7.04.110: Civil Fees


7.04.010: ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT:
Any condition caused, maintained or permitted to exist in violation of any provision of the
Holladay Code or applicable state codes may be abated by the City pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this chapter.


7.04.020: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
  A. Information Included: Whenever an enforcement official determines that a violation of
this code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, a notice of violation
may be issued to the responsible person. The notice of violation shall include the following
information:
   1. Name of the responsible person.
   2. Street address of violation.
   3. Date violation observed.
  4. All code sections violated and a description of the condition that violates the
applicable code.
   5. All remedial action required to permanently correct any violation, which may
include corrections, repairs, demolition, removal or other appropriate action.
    6. Specific date, determined by the director to correct the violation set forth in a notice
of violation.
   7. Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail to comply with
the terms and deadlines as prescribed in the notice of violation, which may include, but is
not limited to: criminal prosecution; civil fees; revocation of permits; recordation of the
notice of violation; withholding of municipal permits; abatement of the violation; costs;
administrative fees; and any other legal remedies.
   8. Statement that civil fees will begin to accrue immediately on expiration of the date to
correct violation.
   9. The amount of the civil fee for each violation and a statement that the civil fee shall
accrue daily until the violation is corrected.
   10. Demand that the responsible person cease and desist from further action causing
the violation and commence and complete all action to correct violations as directed by the
City.
   11. Procedures to request an administrative enforcement hearing, and consequences
for failure to request such hearing.
   12. Statement that when the violation is brought into compliance the responsible
person must request an inspection.
 B. Service Of Notice: The notice of violation shall be served by one of the methods of
service listed in section 7.01.120 of this title.


7.04.030: REQUESTING HEARINGS:
A responsible person shall have the right to an administrative enforcement hearing as
identified in chapter 7.02 of this title. A request for such hearing shall be in writing and
shall be filed within ten (10) days from the date of service of the notice of violation. Failure
to request an administrative enforcement hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver to
an administrative enforcement hearing and a waiver of the right to appeal.


7.04.040: FAILURE TO CORRECT:
It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to fail to comply with the terms and
deadlines set forth in a notice of violation. A violation of this section shall be a class B
misdemeanor.


7.04.050: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the responsible person to request an inspection when a violation has
been corrected. If no inspection is requested, it shall be deemed prima facie evidence that
the violation remains uncorrected. If more than one inspection is necessary, an inspection
fee as specified in title 3, chapter 3.35 of this code shall be assessed for each subsequent
inspection.


7.04.060: AUTHORITY TO ABATE:
The director is hereby authorized, upon a showing of probable cause, to enter upon any
property or premises to abate a violation of this code and applicable state codes as set forth
in section 7.01.150 of this title. The director shall assess all costs for abatement to the
responsible person and may use any remedy available under the law to collect such costs.


7.04.070: PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT:
 A. Abatement By City Personnel Or By Contract: Violations may be abated by City
personnel or by a private contractor acting under the direction of the City.
  B. Enter Upon Private Property: City personnel or a private contractor may enter upon
private property upon reasonable notice and in a reasonable manner to abate a violation as
specified in the notice of violation or administrative enforcement order. In an emergency
situation, the City or its contractor may enter upon private property to abate a code
violation that presents significant imminent risk to public safety or public or private
property. The City shall take reasonable steps to notice a responsible person as soon as is
reasonably practicable concurrent with or after such abatement action.
  C. Abatement By Responsible Person: If a responsible person abates the violation before
the City abates the violation pursuant to a notice of violation or administrative enforcement
order, the director shall nevertheless assess all costs actually incurred by the City against
the responsible person.
 D. Notice Of Itemized Bill For Costs: When abatement is completed, the director shall
prepare a notice of itemized bill for costs.
  E. Service Of Notice; Demand For Payment: The director shall serve the notice of
itemized bill for costs by registered mail to the last known address of the responsible
person. The notice shall demand full payment within twenty (20) days to the City.
  F. Right To Administrative Enforcement Hearing; Time Limit: The responsible person
shall have a right to an administrative enforcement hearing to contest the notice of
itemized bill for costs. A request for such hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
within ten (10) days from the date of service of the notice of itemized bill for cost. Failure
to request an administrative enforcement hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver to
such hearing and a waiver of the right to appeal.


7.04.080: PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION:
For violations of this code or any other applicable code, when a notice of violation has been
served on a responsible person, and the violation remains uncorrected after the date to
correct set forth in the notice of violation, and a request for an administrative enforcement
hearing has not been timely requested, the director shall record the notice of violation with
the Salt Lake County recorder's office.


7.04.090: NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE:
  A. Request For Inspection: When a violation is corrected, a responsible person shall
request an inspection from the director.
 B. Reinspection: When the director receives such request, the director shall reinspect the
property within three (3) days to determine whether the violation has been corrected, and
whether all necessary permits have been issued and final inspections have been performed
as required by applicable codes.
  C. Notice Of Compliance: Within ten (10) days of an inspection of a property which is
subject to a notice of violation in which the officer finds compliance, the director shall serve
a notice of compliance to the responsible person and property owner in the manner
provided in section 7.01.120 of this title if the director determines that:
   1. All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or administrative order have
been corrected;
   2. All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;
   3. All assessed civil fees have been paid; and
   4. All assessed administrative fees and costs have been paid.
  D. Record Notice Of Compliance: The director shall record the notice of compliance with
the Salt Lake County recorder's office if the notice of violation was recorded. Recordation of
the notice of compliance shall have the effect of canceling the recorded notice of violation.


7.04.100: PROHIBITION AGAINST ISSUANCE OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS:
The City shall withhold business licenses or permits for any alteration, repair or
construction pertaining to any existing or new structures or signs on the property, or any
permits pertaining to the use and development of the real property or the structure where
a violation is located. The City shall withhold such permits until a notice of compliance has
been issued by the director. The City shall not withhold permits necessary to obtain a
notice of compliance or to correct serious health and safety violations.


7.04.110: CIVIL FEES:
  A. Specified: If a responsible person fails to correct a violation by the correction date
listed in a notice of violation or in an administrative enforcement order, civil fees shall be
owed to the City as specified in Consolidated Fine Schedule.




CHAPTER 7.05
EMERGENCY ABATEMENT
SECTION:
7.05.010: Emergency Abatement
7.05.020: Procedures


7.05.010: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
  A. Authority Of Director: Whenever the director determines that an imminent life safety
hazard exists in accordance with the international building code, international residential
code and/or the international fire code that requires immediate correction or elimination,
the director shall exercise the following powers without prior notice to the responsible
person:
   1. Order the immediate vacation of any tenants, and prohibit occupancy until all repairs
are completed;
   2. Post the premises as unsafe, substandard or dangerous;
   3. Board, fence or secure the building or site;
   4. Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent further collapse, and
remove any hazard to the general public;
   5. Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any imminent life
safety hazard; or
   6. Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the emergency.
 B. Entrance Upon Property: The director may, based on probable cause, enter property
without a search warrant or court order to accomplish the above listed acts.


7.05.020: PROCEDURES:
 A. Level Of Correction; Costs: The director shall pursue only the minimum level of
correction or abatement necessary to eliminate the immediacy of a hazard. Costs incurred
by the City during the emergency abatement process shall be assessed and recovered
against the responsible person.
  B. Other Remedies: The director may also pursue any other administrative or judicial
remedy to abate any remaining violations.
 C. Notice Of Itemized Bill: After an emergency abatement, the City shall, within ten (10)
days, serve a notice of itemized bill for costs to the responsible person for the abatement
action taken. Such notice shall include a description of the imminent life safety hazard.
  D. Administrative Enforcement Hearing: A responsible person has the right to an
administrative enforcement hearing concerning the itemized billing. A request for such
hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed within ten (10) days from the date of service of
the notice of itemized bill for costs. Failure to request an administrative enforcement
hearing as provided herein shall constitute a waiver to an administrative enforcement
hearing and a waiver to the right of appeal.




CHAPTER 7.06
COSTS AND FEES
SECTION:
7.06.010: Purpose
7.06.020: Assessment Of Costs
7.06.030: Failure To Timely Pay Costs
7.06.040: Allocation Of Civil Fees And Administrative Costs And Fees


7.06.010: PURPOSE:
  A. Recovery: The City Council finds that costs incurred by the City through the actions of
enforcement officials and other City personnel to correct violations should be recovered
from the responsible person.
  B. Appropriate Method: The City Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an
appropriate method to recover expenses incurred for actual costs of abating violations,
reinspection fees, filing fees, attorney fees, hearing examiner fees, title search and any
additional actual costs incurred by the City for each individual case. The assessment and
collection of costs shall not preclude the imposition of any judicial fees or fines for
violations of this code or applicable state codes.


7.06.020: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
 A. Authority: Whenever actual costs are incurred by the City to enforce this code and
applicable state codes, such costs shall be assessed against the responsible person.
 B. Service Of Itemized Bill: The director shall serve the responsible person with a notice
of itemized bill for costs.
 C. Administrative Enforcement Hearing: The responsible person shall have a right to an
administrative enforcement hearing. A request for such hearing shall be in writing and
shall be filed within ten (10) days from the date of service of the notice of itemized bill for
costs. Failure to request an administrative enforcement hearing as provided shall
constitute a waiver to an administrative enforcement hearing and a waiver of the right to
appeal.


7.06.030: FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY COSTS:
The failure of any person to pay assessed costs by the deadline specified in an invoice shall
result in a late fee calculated at the rate of one and one-half percent (11/2%) per month on
the unpaid balances.


7.06.040: ALLOCATION OF CIVIL FEES AND ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS AND FEES:
All fees and costs collected pursuant to this title shall be deposited in the ordinance
enforcement general fund. All fees and costs deposited in the general fund may be allocated
pursuant to the City budget process and as authorized by applicable law.
