                                 NOTICE OF A MEETING OF THE
                               CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2026

4:00 5:30 p.m. Council Photos & Dinner – Council members will be eating dinner. No city business
               will be discussed.

5:30 p.m.     Briefing Session - The Council will review and discuss the agenda items; NO decisions will
              be made

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a Council meeting
on Thursday, February 5, 2026 at 6:00 pm. Members of the Council may participate by electronic
means if needed. The Council Chambers shall serve as the anchor location.
* Agenda items may be moved in order, sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or in this agenda. Interested
parties are encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

To provide a public comment or make a comment during any public hearing, may do so in the following ways:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@holladayut.gov


                                                    AGENDA


I.       Welcome – Mayor Fotheringham

II.      Pledge of Allegiance –

III.     Public Comments
         Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda may provide their
         comment via email to the Council before 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting to
         scarlson@holladayut.gov with the subject line: Public Comment. Comments are subject to the
         Public Comment Policy set forth below

IV.      Public Hearing to Amend Title 13.86.020 by adding 2394 E Murray Holladay Rd to the
         Historic Designation List

V.       City Manager Report – Gina Chamness

VI.      Council Report & District Issues

VII.     Recess to RDA Meeting

VIII.    Reconvene City Council in a Work Meeting:
         a. AI Policy Discussion - Gina
          b. Continued Business License Fee Study Discussion
          c.   Other Business
          d. Calendar
             Council Meetings – Feb. 19
             Council Retreat – Feb. 12
             Fine Art Show – Feb. 6-12
IX.       Closed Session For the Purpose(s) Described in U.C.A. 52-4-204 and 205

X.        Adjourn




 Public Comment Polic & Procedure: During each regular Council Meeting there will be a Public Comment
 Time. The purpose of the Public Comment Time is to allow citizen’s access to the Council. Citizens requesting to
 address the Council will be asked to complete a written request form and present it to the City Recorder. In general,
 the Chairman will allow an individual three minutes to address the Council. A spokesman, recognized as
 representing a group in attendance, may be allowed up to five minutes. Comments which cannot be made within
 these time limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting so
 they can be copied and distributed to the Council. At the conclusion of the Citizen Comment time, the Chairman
 may direct staff to assist the citizen on the issue presented; direct the citizen to the proper administrative
 department(s); or take no action. This policy also applies to all Public Hearings.


CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I certify that the above agenda notice was posted at Holladay City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the
Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn,and the Holladay Library.

DATE POSTED: Monday, February 3, 2026 @ 10:00 am
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC, City Recorder
City of Holladay


         Reasonable accommodation for individuals with disabilities or those needing language interpretation
      services can be provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at
             least three days in advance. TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
                                       HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

                                           COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE: February 5th 2026
SUBJECT: Ordinance Amendment – 13.86.020; Historic Sites, “Casper Cottage” 2394 E Murray Holladay Rd
SUBMITTED BY: Jonathan Teerlink, CED Director

ACTION:
Legislative. Ordinance amendments are to be reviewed and considered during a public hearing prior to a motion
of final decision/action as per procedures set for the Holladay Ord. §13.07.050.

SUMMARY:
Recent amendments to the Historic Designation process have provided a path forward for owners to add their
property to Holladay’s list of Historic sites. The proposed amendment, brought by the applicant and property
owner Ron Hilton, would amend Title 13.86.020 of the City of Holladay, Land Use and Development Regulations
by adding 2394 East Murray Holladay Road, proposed as “The Casper Cottage”, to Holladay’s Historic
Designation list.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE, CONSIDERATIONS:
The purpose of the code amendment is proposed to implement the General Plan’s vision to recognize
properties in the city with historical significance. Chapter 13.86 is enacted to allow property owners a path to
propose preservation of sites, structures, landmarks or buildings with special historical, architectural or
aesthetic value. Such aspects are established by the General Plan as being unique and irreplaceable assets.

The address proposed to be added is not currently listed on a Register of Historic Places but is being presented
by the applicant as a property featuring preserved historical features which are similar to other historic,
Holladay properties in the late 1890s. In addition, the applicant has provided and history of the original owner
and family, Duncan S Casper (The Casper Cottage).

Once a site is designated by the City Council, the property remains on the designation list. If desired the
property owner may apply to the planning commission for additional, site specific approvals such as special
land uses or associated site, structure modifications.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES:
The following is a summary of the proposed changes to Title 13:
    • Sec. 13.86.020 Historic Sites Designated, provides a register of historic sites, as currently designated.
    • The register is proposed to be amended to include, 2394 E Murray Holladay as residence of the Duncan
        S Casper and family from 1898 until 1916
                                         HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

SUMMARY OF HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE
Built in 1898, the single-story home is found by staff as being an example of a cross-wing type cottage which
was prevalent in late 1800s to early 1900s. Its front door, off the side of the main structure, features a covered
porch, and a façade which presents subtle Victorian Eclectic features (brick “eyebrow” over front window). The
property is uniquely situated near Spring Creek, where much of Holladay’s initial settlements originated. The
property was later improved to add square footage to the home while leaving the original structure largely
intact.

The applicant has provided some background of the Casper family and highlighted Duncan Spears Casper as a
core pioneer presence to the area through the ownership of property within historic Holladay and establishing
himself as an individual who, “…was part of the original LDS migration to Utah, and Holladay in Particular.” – -
Hulton narrative

GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE:
Historical location and preservation goals are found Chapter 2; Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood
Preservation (Page 12). The Historic Preservations section of this chapter highlights the applicant’s property as
a site that, “…have been identified as being of historic importance within the City, regardless of whether or not
they are in the Cottonwood Historic Area.”

RECOMMENDATION:
City Council shall hold the required public hearing and review the applicant’s presentation. It is the
recommendation of the Community and Economic Development Director to approve the proposal, based upon
the following findings;

CED, Director findings:
        1. The property owner has initiated the application, (§13.07.050C) and
        2. The property is older than the 50-year minimum requirement, and
        3. The property complies with §13.07.050.F(1)(3) as a property with “Historic integrity” and
            §13.07.050.F(4)(b) as a property with significance as, “closely associated with the lives of persons
            who were of historic importance to the community.”

STANDARDS for CONSIDERATION, FOR or AGAINST:
13.07.050 HISTORIC DESIGNATION:
    F. Criteria: Any district, building, structure, object or site listed by the National Register of Historic Places
       may be designated to the city's historic site register. Alternatively, any district building, object or site
       may be designated if the council finds it meets all the criteria outlined below:
            1. It is located within the city.
            2. It is at least fifty (50) years old.
                                      HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

           3. Historic integrity:
              a. It retains its historic integrity, in that there are no major alterations or additions that have
             obscured or destroyed the significant historic features. Major alterations that would destroy the
             historic integrity include, but are not limited to, changes in pitch of the main roof, enlargement
             or enclosure of windows on the principal facades, addition of upper stories or the removal of
             original upper stories, covering the exterior walls with non-historic materials, moving the
             resource from its original location to one that is dissimilar to the original, additions which
             significantly detract from or obscure the original form and appearance of the structure when
             viewed from the public way.



ATTACHMENTS:
Applicant Narrative
Property documentation
General Plan

FISCAL IMPACT:
None

SUGGESTED MOTION:
Move to work meeting.
                   NOTICE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING OF THE
                      CITY OF HOLLADAY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                              THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 20226


PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay Redevelopment Agency will hold a
meeting on Thursday, February 5, 2026 as close to 6:15 pm as possible. It is possible that a
member of the Board will be participating by electronic means. The Council Chambers shall serve as the
anchor location. NOTE: State Law requires that the City Council members constitute the Board of the
Redevelopment Agency.

All documents which are available to the RDA Board are also available on the City’s website or are linked in this
agenda. Interested parties are encouraged to watch the Live video stream of the meeting –
http://cityofholladay.com/government/elected-officials/meetings-and-agendas/

Persons desiring to make public comments or to make comments during any public hearing may provide such
comments as follows:
1.      In-person attendance: at Holladay City Hall .
2.      Email your comments by 5:00 pm on the date of the meeting to scarlson@holladayut.gov



                                                            AGENDA

I.          Call to Order –

II.         Consideration of RDA Resolution 2026-02 Amending the Redevelopment Agency
            Budget for Fiscal Year 2025-26

III.        Other Business

IV.         Adjourn RDA Meeting & Recess to City Council Work Meeting




CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
The above agenda notice was posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah Public Notice website
www.utah.gov/pmn, and was emailed to others who have indicated interest.

DATE POSTED: Monday, February 2, 2026 at 10:00am
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC, City Recorder
City of Holladay

       Reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities or those in need of language interpretation services can be
       provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at least three days in advance.
                                 TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
                              REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE
                                   CITY OF HOLLADAY

                               RDA RESOLUTION NO. 2026-02

                  A RESOLUTION AMENDING THE BUDGET OF THE
                  REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY FOR
                  THE FISCAL YEAR BEGINNING JULY 1, 2025 AND ENDING
                  JUNE 30, 2026.

        WHEREAS, the Redevelopment Agency of the City of Holladay, has adopted, by
resolution, the budget for the Agency for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2025 and ending June
30, 2026, in accordance with the requirements of the state statute; and

     WHEREAS, the Executive Director has prepared and filed with the Secretary a proposed
amendment to the adopted budget for consideration by the Board of Directors; and

       WHEREAS, said proposed amendment reflects changes in the budget to account for actual
revenues received and expenditures incurred; and

       WHEREAS, the proposed amendments have been duly noticed and a public hearing held
on January 22, 2026; and

      WHEREAS, all conditions precedent to the amendment of the budget have been
accomplished; and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors determines that amending the fiscal year 2025-2026
budget is in the best interest of the citizens of the City of Holladay;

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Redevelopment
Agency of the City of Holladay, Utah as follows:

                                      SECTION I
                              BUDGET AMENDMENT ADOPTION

        The budget amendments attached hereto as Exhibit A and made a part of this Resolution
are hereby adopted and incorporated in the budget of the Redevelopment Agency of the City of
Holladay, Utah for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2025, and ending June 30, 2026, in
accordance with the requirements of state law.

                                        SECTION II
                                      FURTHER ACTION

       In addition to the foregoing, the Executive Director is hereby directed to implement any
other necessary actions pertinent to the amendment of the Budget. Such actions may include, but
are not necessarily limited to, notification, reporting, and publishing as required by and
consistent with applicable law.

                                         SECTION III
                                        SEVERABILITY

        If any provision of this Resolution is declared invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder shall not be affected thereby.

                                         SECTION IV
                                       EFFECTIVE DATE

       This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon posting, as required by law, deposited
and recorded in the office of the City Recorder, and accepted as required herein.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this             day of February, 2026.

                                                REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF
                                                HOLLADAY CITY


                                                By: ____________________________________
                                                    Emily Gray, Chair



                                                VOTING:
                                                David Sundwall            Yea       Nay ___
                                                Matt Durham               Yea       Nay ___
                                                Natalie Bradley           Yea       Nay ___
                                                Drew Quinn                Yea       Nay ___
                                                Emily Gray                Yea       Nay ___
                                                Paul Fotheringham         Yea       Nay ___


ATTEST:


_____________________________
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
Secretary



       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this            day of February, 2026.

       RECORDED this          day of February, 2026.
                                               2
   Section 4.        POLICY

   A.     Use of GenAI Tools

         1. The City Manager shall review and approve GenAI tools used for City
purposes. No GenAI tool may be used until it has been reviewed and approved by the
City Manager.

                a.     This policy applies to all stand-alone programs. Embedded Al tools
                       within the software currently in use by the C ity, like Microsoft Office
                       365 Word, Excel, Canva, etc., is approved for use.

                b.     The following are also approved for use: C hatGPT, Grammarly and
                       Microsoft Co-pilot.

                c.     Quarterly check-ins will be held to review Al advancements and
                       requests for new tools.

         2. Thoroughly review, revise, and fact-check any output from generative Al.
Users are responsible for any material created with Al support.

           3.    Users must cite the generative Al when a substantial portion of the
   content used in the final version comes from the generative Al. Standardized
   disclosure language/statement will be provided to staff.

           4.     When using an approved GenAI tool for City purposes, employees shall
use their City e-mail address to register and to create an account. The account associated
with an employee's City e-mail address may only be used for City purposes. Personal use
of an approved GenAI tool from an account using a City e-mail is prohibited.

            5.     Any minutes created using GenAI must have a disclosure that they are
not the official record of the City

   B.     Data Privacy

           1.     Unless suitable controls and data protections are in place, as determined
   by the City Recorder, employees shall not submit data that is classified as controlled,
   protected, or private under the Government Records Access and Management Act, or
   that is otherwise not considered to be acceptable to publicly disclose to a GenAI
   system. Personally identifying, confidential, and financial information of the City's
   residents, visitors, employees, and other entities are examples of such data.

         2.      Employees should be aware that, in most cases, the use of a GenAI
   system will result in the creation of a public record that must be retained under Utah's
   Government Records Access and Management Act. (See Utah Code Ann. §63G-2-
   103(25).)

         3.    Employees must choose the opt-out option of data collection so that the
   GenAI system will not retain the data provided for use in its system's model.
                                            City of Holladay


                               COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

MEETING DATE: February 5,2026
SUBJECT: Business License Fee Study
SUBMITTED BY: Ann Frances Garcia, Economic & Housing Manager

ACTION:
 A business license study has been conducted to make this determination and assist in establishing a new
fee schedule based upon the actual costs to the City.

SUMMARY:
Business license fee studies analyze the direct and indirect costs of issuing licenses and regulating
businesses to ensure fees accurately reflect the cost of services provided, often adjusting for
disproportionate impacts on our city’s resources. These reports typically review employee time,
administrative expenses, and fee structures (ie. Base fee plus employee count) to recommend necessary
fee schedule adjustments.

This study calculates the maximum business license fees allowable in Holladay under current State law.
Generally, fees for service are targeted to full cost recovery, inclusive of operating, direct, indirect, and
capital costs, except in cases where the City Council cites a public interest to lower fees. The City Council
may choose a fee lower than the maximum fee. If less than the maximum allowable fees are charged, the
difference between the fee and the cost to the City will be covered through other revenue sources.

Factors the City may want to consider as it establishes new business license fees include. (This list
includes some of the options from the November 6, 2025 work session, that council requested the
consultant review and follow-up):

    •   Percentage change to current fees;
    •   Dollar amount of change in fees;
    •   Correlation between proposed fees and the actual cost of services contained in this study;
    •   Recognition of other revenues generated by some business types (such as sales tax, real property
        tax, personal property tax, municipal energy tax, transient room tax, etc.); and
    •   The comparative/competitive fees in neighboring cities and towns

BACKGROUND:
In January 2025, LRB Public Finance Advisors was retained by the City of Holladay to complete analysis
of business licensing costs to meet the requirements of Utah law as established by Utah Code Annotated
§10-1-203. The law states that “…the legislative body of a municipality may license for the purpose of
regulation and revenue any business within the limits of the municipality and may regulate that business
                                            City of Holladay

by ordinance.” Additionally, the law states that “the amount of a fee shall be reasonably related to the
costs of the municipal services provided by the municipality.” In other words, business licensing fees
charged may not exceed the amount necessary to reasonably regulate business activity, including the costs
of disproportionate and enhanced levels of municipal services required by some business classes,
geographic locations, etc.

On November 6, 2025, the City Council received a report and presentation, during the work session, on
the Business License Fee Study. The report and presentation focused on the purpose of the study, process,
methodology, and policy considerations. Our consultant, LRB, was tasked to follow up with various
scenarios based on the feedback received.

    •   What is the true cost benefit?
    •   Capture whatever the delta is on then create a disproportional cost matrix that captures that cost.
    •   Do an adjustment to this fee schedule across the board to make it budget neutral.
    •   Create an scenario that includes revenue recognition of revenue contribution.
    •   Show a ramp up scenario over a period of time.
    •   Provide columns that show examples of other communities to provide a comparison.

While this study calculates the maximum business license fees allowable under current State law, the City
Council may choose a lesser fee. If less than the maximum allowable fees are charged, the difference
between the fee and the cost to the city will need to be made up through other revenue sources. While the
update to the fee schedule will provide a fiscal impact in the form of additional revenue, it is important to
note that the revenue is not intended to fund new services; rather, the revenue is intended to offset the
costs of providing existing services that are recoverable from fees.




Cities are allowed under Utah Code to collect disproportionate business licensing fees for the following
municipal services: • Police • Fire/EMS • Storm Water Runoff • Traffic Control • Parking •
Transportation • Beautification • Snow Removal.
                                            City of Holladay

The disproportionate portion of the fee is based on increased calls for service by some business
categories, as well as the average cost for the police and fire departments to respond to a call. The cost
analysis included an analysis of base costs, department overhead costs, administrative overhead costs. The
disproportionate analysis consisted of analysis from public safety (police and limited fire call data); a
determination of cost per call; establish baseline level of service; then calculate disproportionate fees by
business groups. The number of disproportionate calls, by business type, is then multiplied by the cost per
call to arrive at the disproportionate cost per business type.

Utah law requires that all businesses in the same business category be charged the same business license
fee. Depending on the grouping, all businesses in the groupings are charged the calculated
disproportionate fee. The City’s current Business License fee schedule includes 37 distinct business
categories. Given the breadth of this structure and the overlap among several categories, LRB
recommends adopting a simplified framework consisting of 23 business types by consolidating those with
similar functions. The groupings with the highest number of calls are their own grouping category.

Our current 37 business categories are the following:

    •   3+ Apartment Complex                           * Accessory Dwelling Unit – ADU Rental
    •   Automative                                     * Banking/Credit Union
    •   Bed and Breakfast                              * Billboards
    •   Business, Professional and Contracted Services
    •   Club (under 50 % Food Sales                    * Convenience Store/Gass
    •   Daycare                                        * Educational Services
    •   Entertainment                                  * Grocery Services
    •   Home Occupation (New)                          * Home Occupation (Renewal)
    •   Home Occupation Daycare                        * Home Occupation NRU
    •   Hotels                                         * Insurances Sales
    •   Manufacturing                                  * Mobile Food Truck/Trailer
    •   Movie Theatres                                 * Non-Profit
    •   Nursing, Residential, and Personal Care        * Personal Services
    •   Pharmacy/Drugstore                             * Restaurant Full Service
    •   Restaurant Limited Services                    * Restaurant with Liquor
    •   Restaurant/Fast Food without Liquor            * Retail/Wholesale/Distribution
    •   Salon Booth Rental/Stylist                     * Seasonal/Temporary
    •   Smoke Shops                                    * Social Club
    •   Solicitor                                      * Trade Schools
                                            City of Holladay

The new categories would be grouped as shown on this chart:




It’s important to know that these new groupings do not contradict our city’s land use tables.
                                             City of Holladay

RECOMMENDATION:
Staff and city consultant presentations are provided to update the city council’s previous direction and
gain input on final assumptions of potential fee increases.

As the City considers license fees for home-based businesses, it is important to note certain restrictions in
Utah Code. The State of Utah prohibits municipalities from charging a fee to a resident of the
municipality to operate a home-based business, “unless the combined offsite impact of the home-based
business and the primary residential use materially exceeds the offsite impact of the primary residential
use alone.” However, a municipality may charge an administrative fee for a license to an exempt home-
based business owner if they request a license. If an owner of a non-regulated home‐based business
requests a license, the administrative fee is currently $20.

A common method of adjusting fees is to evaluate regional cost indicators, to ensure that the city receives
appropriate fees for work being conducted. Staff recommend a possible two-year adjustment to user fees
using the following considerations in establishing a new fee structure:

    1. Performance Review
          a. Commit to a two-year look-back using updated calls-for-service and inspection logs;
              adjust fees by resolution

    2. Compliance & Nuisance:
         a. Maintain authority for enhanced inspections and cost recovery when a business triggers
             repeated violations (with due process).


ATTACHMENTS:
  • LRB – Business License Cost of Service Study Presentation

FISCAL IMPACT: ?

SUGGESTED MOTION: Continue to Work session
