                                NOTICE OF A WORK MEETING OF THE
                                 CITY OF HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
                                      THURSDAY, APRIL 3, 2025
                                             5:30 pm

5:00 p.m.          Council Dinner – Council members will be eating dinner. No city business will be
                   discussed.

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a Work meeting on
Thursday, April 3, 2025 at 5:30 pm. Members of the Council may participate by electronic means if
needed. The Mt. Olympus Room shall serve as the anchor location. * Agenda items may be moved in order,
sequence and time to meet the needs of the Council

All documents available to the City Council are accessible on the City’s website or on this agenda. Interested
parties are encouraged to watch the live video stream of the meeting -
agendas/https://holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php

The public is invited to observe the work session. Public comment generally is not taken during work
session

                                                         AGENDA

    1. Welcome – Mayor Dahle
    2. Granite School District Boundary Presentation – Steve Hogan
    3. 2025 Legislative Update – David & Ashey Spatafore
    4. Review of City Survey – Kyrene Gibbs, Y2K Analytics
    5. Discussion on Financial Policy – Christian
    6. Overlay Update -Jared
    7.    Closed Session For the Purpose(s) Described in U.C.A. 52-4-204 and 205
    8. Adjourn




 CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
 I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above agenda notice was posted at City
 Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn, and was emailed to the Salt
 Lake Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

 DATE POSTED: Monday, March 31 at 11:30am
 Stephanie N. Carlson MMC,
 City Recorder City of Holladay

     Reasonable accommodation for individuals with disabilities or those needing language interpretation services can be
    provided upon request. For assistance, please call the City Recorder’s office at 272-9450 at least three days in advance.
                              TTY/TDD number is (801)270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #7-1-1
  Granite School District
       Elementary
Boundary and Closure Study
          (Area 5)
            2025
Area 5 - Elementary
                 Area 5 Elementary Schools
                       Oct 1, 24 Regular   Projected Fall 25    Building
   Location      FCI
                         Enrollment           Enrollment       Capacity
Cottonwood       37           340                315           ~ 500-550
Crestview        39           460                430           ~ 550-600
Driggs           27           440                422           ~ 650-700
Eastwood         4            270                259           ~ 450-500
Morningside      20           565                547           ~ 550-600
Oakridge         5            270                243           ~ 550-600
Oakwood          60           510                521           ~ 700-750
Penn             58           615                564           ~ 600-650
Rosecrest        32           300                296           ~ 450-500
Upland Terrace   22           395                383           ~ 650-700
                             4165                3980
              WHY ?



Why are we conducting this study?

   Declining Student Enrollment
20-Year Enrollment
                      20-Year Enrollment + 5-Year Forecast
             75,000
                                                                                                                Granite School District Enrollment with 5-year Forecast




                                                                            68,614
                                        68,517
                               68,462




                                                          68,392
                      68,314




                                                                   68,267




                                                                                                       68,107
                                                 68,075




                                                                                                                 67,822
                                                                                     67,736


                                                                                              67,600
             70,000




                                                                                                                          67,177


                                                                                                                                   67,177


                                                                                                                                            66,024


                                                                                                                                                     64,281


                                                                                                                                                              63,989
             65,000




                                                                                                                                                                       61,036


                                                                                                                                                                                59,924


                                                                                                                                                                                         58,595


                                                                                                                                                                                                  57,858
             60,000
Enrollment




                                                                                                                                                                                                           55,546


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    53,040
             55,000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             51,540


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      50,060


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               48,711


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        47,518
             50,000




             45,000




             40,000
                      2004     2005     2006     2007     2008     2009     2010     2011     2012     2013     2014      2015     2016     2017     2018     2019     2020     2021     2022     2023     2024     2025     2026     2027     2028     2029
                                                                                                                                        Year
Statewide Data
Factors Influencing Future Student Population


     ❖ Birth Rate

     ❖ Residential Growth

     ❖ Families moving in or out of the district (mobility)

     ❖ Increase in charter, private and online schools

     ❖ Open Enrollment
               WHY ?



    Why does a declining student
 enrollment matter and what are the
inpacts to schools and communities
Reminder about Student-Teacher Ratio



    More students = more teachers

   Fewer students = fewer teachers
               Benefits of Consolidation
                      Include, but are not limited to:


➢ Having an average of 500-550 students allows an elementary school
  to staff at a minimum of three teachers per grade level
➢ No split grade-level classrooms
➢ Provides more parental choice to match learning style and decrease
  personality conflicts
➢ Professional Learning Communities and overall collaboration are
  much more effective
➢ Balances out classroom size
              Benefits of Consolidation…cont.

➢ The economy of scale provides more funds for extra staffing and program supports
➢ Easier to maintain larger and more effective SCC’s, PTA’s and other parent
 volunteer efforts because there are simply more parents to draw from
➢ Teacher workload and burnout is decreased – more teachers and staff to fulfill
 committee assignments required for all schools
➢ More efficient use of administrator-to-student-and-teacher ratios(e.g., one
 principal for a school of 250 students or one principal for a school of 500
 students?)
➢ Schools are appropriately sized to host programs like Dual-Language-Immersion
➢ More inclusion opportunities for SPED students
➢ More fiscally responsible use of district resources
The Study Process
              Prominent Factors Considered

Including, but not limited to:

➢ Current and Future Enrollment

➢ Facility Condition (FCI)

➢ Transportation

➢ Safest Walking Routes

➢ Fiscal Considerations

➢ School/District Programs and their Impacts

➢ Benefits of Consolidation
       Discussion




graniteschools.org/planning/
Holladay City - Bill Watch List
Date: March 12, 2025
Contact: Dave@spatafore.info - (801) 541-4441 or Ashley@spatafore.info - (323) 397-9079
Bill #     Sponsor       Short Title           Summary                                                                                       Position       Status
HOUSE

                                               This bill deals with housing development and housing policy. It modifies the minimum
                                               population for incorporation of a new town; authorizes a municipality or county to
                                               authorize additional housing density in exchange for certain requirements; authorizes a
                                               municipality or county to offer incentives in an area approved for single-family or multi-
                                               family residential units to promote owner-occupied, affordable housing; modifies
HB 37                   Utah Housing           requirements for a moderate-income housing plan and housing report; authorizes a
           Dunnigan                                                                                                                               Neutral   Passed
Sub. 1                  Amendments             special district to provide the operation of a propane system within its boundaries;
                                               authorizes the Division of Housing and Community Development to make rules regarding
                                               the content and form of a moderate income housing report; requires the Governor's
                                               Office of Planning and Budget (GOPB) to develop a state housing plan by December 31,
                                               2025; requires GOPB to submit an annual written report on the implementation of the
                                               state housing plan to the Political Subdivisions Interim Committee.

                                               This bill modifies school safety provisions. Provisions include communication device
HB 40                   School Safety          requirement modifications, building standard amendments, revisions of screening/training
           R. Wilcox                                                                                                                    Neutral             Passed
Sub. 5                  Amendments             requirements for school safety personnel, safety assessment deadline/responsibility
                                               changes, and establishment of a school safety foundation.

                                                Requires counties to take certain actions related to wildland urban interface property,
                                                including assessing a fee; directs the fee to be retained by a county or deposited into the
                                                Wildland-urban Interface Prevention, Preparedness, and Mitigation Fund; addresses
                                                insuring wildland urban interface property; imposes notice requirements related to
                                                insuring wildland urban interface property; requires counties and municipalities to adopt
HB 48                   Wildland Urban
           Snider                               the WUI building code standards; permits the Division of FFSL to choose not to cover        Neutral         Passed
Sub. 3                  Interface Modifications
                                                costs of local governments under certain circumstances; directs the division to establish
                                                a program for wildland urban interface coordinators to evaluate, using a triage scale, high
                                                risk wildland urban interface property; addresses actions related to evaluating the high
                                                risk wildland urban interface property; provides for a database to be accessed by certain
                                                insurers related to evaluating high risk wildland urban interface property


                                               Directs the Uniform Building Code Commission to: collect data pertaining to building
                                               inspectors; publish gathered data on an annual basis; and report the data annually to the
                                               Legislature; expands the scope for the Division of Professional Licensing to spend money
HB 58                   Building Inspector
           Peterson                            from surcharges; adds unlawful and unprofessional conduct provisions for licensed              Neutral       Passed
Sub. 4                  Amendments
                                               building inspectors acting as qualified building officials; requires a local regulator to hire
                                               or contract with a qualified building official; schedules the repeal of the licensing
                                               requirement for a building inspector and related unlawful conduct provisions

                                               Amends the required frequency of a moderate income housing progress report; provides
                        Housing Policy         that an accessory dwelling unit, internal or external, on a lot containing a detached single
HB 88      Ward                                                                                                                             Oppose          Failed
                        Amendments             family dwelling is a permitted use in a residential zone of an urban municipality; provides
                                               that an urban municipality may not prohibit the use of a modular unit in a residential zone
                                           Defines the term "urban municipality"; provides that a detached single family dwelling that
                                           is built on a lot of at least 4,000 square feet is a permitted use in a residential zone of an
HB 90    Ward       Zoning Amendments                                                                                                     Oppose     Failed
                                           urban municipality; provides that housing is a permitted use in a commercial zone of an
                                           urban municipality

                    Single Family Homes Prohibits an institutional investor from purchasing a single family home in this state; and
HB 149   Clancy     Ownership           provides that an institutional investor that does purchase a single family home in this         Monitor      Failed
                    Amendments          state must alienate that home within one year of purchasing the home

                                           Requires a purchaser to sign an affidavit of intent to occupy when buying a single-family
                                           home within the first 30 days the single-family home is on the market, unless the seller
                    Home Sales
HB 151   Bennion                           incurs an exigent circumstance; requires that a purchaser record an affidavit of intent to   Support      Failed
                    Amendments
                                           occupy with a county recorder; and prohibits the bulk sale of foreclosed single-family
                                           homes
                                           This bill requires the Division of Waste Management and Radiation Control (division) to
                    Glass Recycling        study how to increase the amount of used glass for recycling and to report findings and
HB 177   Welton                                                                                                                         Support      Passed
                    Amendments             recommendations to the Natural Resources, Agriculture, and Environment Interim
                                           Committee.
                                           This bill amends provisions related to the relocation of a billboard due to road
                    Highway Expansion
                                           construction or other highway changes. It amends provisions related to the relocation of a
HB 198   Peterson   Impacts on Signage                                                                                                Under Review   Passed
                                           billboard if the billboard was impacted by the widening, construction, reconstruction, or
                    Amendments
                                           other improvements appurtenant to the relevant highway.

                    School Zone
HB 225   C Moss     Speeding               Modifies the speed limit at which a first time offender must observe a crossing guard        Support      Failed
                    Amendments

                                           This bill modifies short-term rental provisions related to the authority of municipalities and
                                           counties. It clarifies that municipalities/counties may use a website listing as evidence
                                           that a short-term rental took place in addition to other supporting info. proving violation of
                                           a municipality/county ordinance by a property owner; allows municipalities/counties to
                    Municipal Zoning
HB 256   Walter                            inform short-term rental websites that a listing violates business licensing/zoning            Support    Passed
                    Amendments
                                           requirements; provides that a rental website is not obligated to remove a listing without
                                           notice from a municipality/county; provides that a municipality/county may provide a
                                           website listing to the county auditor as evidence that a rental owner may be subject to the
                                           transient room tax

                                           This bill addresses safety elements in a bicycle lane. Highlighted Provisions. It defines
                    Bicycle Lane Safety
HB 290   Mauga                             terms; clarifies when motor vehicles may be in a bicycle lane; and restricts obstructing a   Support      Passed
                    Amendments
                                           bicycle lane.
                                        This bill establishes a procedure to conduct a recall election for the office of mayor. It
                                        establishes a procedure to require a recall election for a mayor; establishes requirements
                    Mayoral Recall
HB 291   Abott                          to file a recall application and petition; describes requirements for a petition for a recall Oppose         Failed
                    Election Amendments
                                        election, gathering and submitting signatures, removing signatures, and evaluating
                                        signatures; establishes requirements for holding a recall election and determining the
                                            This bill authorizes municipalities to place a political subdivision lien on property for past
                                            due service fees. It authorizes a municipality to set a fee schedule by ordinance or
                  Municipal Services
                                            resolution for certain services provided by the municipality or a third-party contracted by
                  Fees and Political
HB 295   Cutler                             the municipality; authorizes a municipality to bill a customer for services provided by the      Support   Failed
                  Subdivision Lien
                                            municipality or a third-party contracted by the municipality; authorizes a municipality to
                  Amendments
                                            hold a political subdivision lien on a property for past due service fees; modifies the
                                            process for a special district to charge interest and costs on a past due fee.

                                            This bill amends provisions relating to voting at an election. It provides that, after a ballot
                                            is mailed to a voter, the voter is required to return the ballot in person to a polling place
                                            where the voter must provide valid voter ID with the following exceptions: the voter timely
                  Amendments to             applies to return a ballot by mail; the voter returns a ballot as a military or overseas voter;
HB 300   Burton                                                                                                                             Oppose     Passed
                  Election Law              the voter has other legal grounds. It requires a voter to appear in person and provide
                                            valid voter ID when voting at a polling place; returning a ballot to a polling place; or
                                            requesting to return a ballot by mail. It also allows a ballot to be returned to a ballot drop
                                            box only when the ballot drop box is attended by two or more poll workers.

                                            This bill addresses use of lawn or turf related to residential lots. It requires a municipality
                  Residential Turf
HB 318   Owens                              or county to adopt lawn or turf restrictions for certain newly constructed residences;          Monitor    Failed
                  Amendments
                                            allows a municipality or county to adopt more restrictive limitations

                                            This bill addresses the use of overhead spray irrigation under specified circumstances. It
                                            directs a municipality or county to require compliance with a prohibition on use of
                                            overhead spray irrigation as part of land use approvals; requires a municipality or county
                  Water Usage
HB 328   Owens                              to give notice of the prohibition on use of overhead spray irrigation; encourages a        Monitor         Failed
                  Amendments
                                            municipality or county to review certain plans, act on the plans, inspect for compliance,
                                            and address noncompliance; and prohibits for new development and redevelopment the
                                            use of overhead spray irrigation except under certain circumstances.


                                            This bill addresses mining and critical infrastructure materials operations. It changes
                  Critical Infrastructure   vested critical infrastructure materials use provisions to make them more similar to
HB 355   Snider   Materials                 vested mining provisions; addresses operations on new land; amends provisions related Oppose               Passed
                  Amendments                to vested mining operations; repeals redundant notice requirements; and repeals study
                                            requirements.


                                            This bill amends provisions related to affordable housing. It provides that a closed
                  Housing Attainability
HB 360   Whyte                              meeting may be held under certain circumstances by a political subdivision; and repeals          Support   Passed
                  Amendments
                                            the sunset date for the Utah Housing Corporation
                                            This bill clarifies municipal annexation and municipal boundary adjustment statutes;
                                            modifies municipality or county plan review processes; modifies notice requirements
                                            before a public hearing on a proposed land use regulation; prohibits a municipality or
                                            county from requiring a private individual or entity, including a community association or
                                            homeowners association, to permanently be responsible for a public access amenity or
                                            water utility with certain exceptions; modifies how a municipality or county inspects the
                                            performance of warranty work; modifies a municipality's or county's landscaping
HB 368                 Local Land Use
         Whyte                              regulation process; modifies the process for a municipality or county to allow transferable Under Review   Passed
Sub. 3                 Amendments
                                            development rights; creates a process for applicants to submit an identical floor plan to a
                                            municipality for an expedited review; prohibits a municipality or county from requiring a
                                            public hearing for a request for a variance or another land use appeal; modifies
                                            municipality or county enforcement of an ordinance by withholding a building permit or
                                            certificate of occupancy; modifies the State Fire Code Act; modifies provisions related to
                                            special districts and land use; establishes a process by which a person may convey real
                                            property by deed to a public entity

                                            This bill modifies the day on which Juneteenth National Freedom Day is recognized in
                                            Utah. It provides that June 19, called Juneteenth National Freedom Day, is a legal
                                            holiday in Utah; consistent with other legal holidays in Utah, provides for recognition of
                       State Holiday
HB 370   Hollins                            Juneteenth                                                                                    Support      Failed
                       Modifications
                                            National Freedom Day on the preceding Friday or subsequent Monday if the holiday
                                            falls on a Saturday or Sunday, respectively; and amends parent-time schedules in
                                            relation to Juneteenth National Freedom Day.

                                            This bill modifies provisions governing postretirement reemployment. It allows a public
                       Public Safety        safety retiree within the Utah Retirement Systems (URS) to return to work for a URS
HB 417   Wilcox        Retirement           participating employer without affecting the retiree's retirement allowance, if the retiree   Monitor      Failed
                       Amendments           returns to work for a local education agency providing law enforcement services and
                                            meets other specified criteria.

                                            This bill repeals the ban on flavored electronic cigarette products (ECPs); repeals the
                                            nicotine content limit for ECPs; repeals the requirement that ECPs obtain premarket
                                            authorization from the federal Food and Drug Administration; creates penalties for
                    Tobacco and
                                            general retail tobacco businesses that sell flavored ECPs; for retail tobacco specialty
HB 432   MacPherson Electronic Cigarette                                                                                                  Oppose       Failed
                                            businesses: raises licensing fees; creates ID scanning requirements; and creates
                    Modifications
                                            surveillance footage requirements; creates a tobacco handling permit for retail tobacco
                                            specialty business employees and operators; creates a tax on flavored ECPs; and
                                            amends criminal penalties for the illegal sale of tobacco & ECPs.

                                            This bill prohibits a city from imposing a fee on the general public for broadband or public
                                            safety service, with exceptions; prohibits a town from imposing a fee on the general
                                            public for public safety service, with exceptions; authorizes a city to impose a
                       Local Government
HB 454   K. Peterson                        transportation utility fee if the city complies with certain requirements; establishes a     Monitor       Failed
                       Fees Modifications
                                            process and requirements for a city to impose a transportation utility fee; and provides a
                                            process to hold a referendum on the imposition of a transportation utility fee or an
                                            increase to an existing transportation utility fee.
                                          This bill modifies and establishes requirements for the use of automatic license plate
                                          reader systems. It provides for authorized uses for automatic license plate reader
                                          systems by law enforcement agencies and other governmental entities; establishes
                                                                                                                                          Support    Failed
                                          reporting requirements regarding the use of automatic license plate reader systems for:
                     Automatic License    law enforcement agencies and other governmental entities; and creates standards for
HB 468               Plate Reader         data obtained from an automatic license plate reader system, including data security;
Sub. 4   Chevrier    Amendments           retention; and sharing.
                                          This bill modifies provisions relating to property tax revenue increases. It provides the
                                          circumstances under which a taxing entity shall submit an opinion question to registered
                     Property Tax Revenue voters before increasing the amount of revenue generated from property tax; exempts a
HB 511   Auxier                                                                                                                           Monitor    Failed
                     Increase Amendments taxing entity that submits an opinion question to registered voters from the truth-in-
                                          taxation notice and hearing requirements; limits how much revenue a taxing entity
                                          receives from new growth.

                     Building Permit Fee
                                            This bill amends provisions related to permitting fees by preventing a municipality or a
HB 550   Peterson    Prohibition                                                                                                          Monitor    Passed
                                            county from imposing an inspection fee on certain entities in certain situations.
                     Amendments




SENATE

                                            Defines "meeting" to align with the definition in the Open and Public Meetings Act to
                     Truth in Taxation
SB 95    Balderee                           clarify that a public hearing on increasing the property tax rate above the certified tax rate Monitor   Passed
                     Amendments
                                            requires the presence of a quorum of the taxing entity


                                            Authorizes a municipality to prohibit the sale of fireworks from a temporary fireworks
SB 103   Plumb       Fireworks Revisions                                                                                                  Monitor    Failed
                                            stand in restricted discharge areas

                                            Restates the authority of the legislative auditor general; excludes certain information and
                     Legislative Audit      communications obtained by the legislative auditor general from the definition of "record";
SB 154   Brammer                                                                                                                        Oppose       Passed
                     Amendments             requires a lawyer to provide information, materials, or resources relating to the
                                            representation of an entity
                                        This bill amends provisions relating to the Government Records Access and
                                        Management Act. It requires a summary of government records requirements to be
                                        developed and provided to government employees; modifies provisions relating to record
                                        request fees; modifies requirements for responding to a record request, modifies State
                     Government Records
SB 163   Harper                         Records Committee provisions; requires a governmental entity to conduct an annual         Monitor            Failed
                     Amendments
                                        review of records retention requirements and compliance with those requirements;
                                        amends requirements for an ordinance or policy adopted by a political subdivision in
                                        relation to public records; makes it a crime to destroy a record with the intent to avoid
                                        disclosure in response to a pending record request
                                            This bill enacts provisions related to local classification and approval of new and unlisted
                     Local Regulation of
                                            business uses. It requires each municipality and county to enact a land use regulation
SB 179   Musselman   Business Entities                                                                                                   Monitor     Passed
                                            establishing a process for reviewing a business use not listed as an approved use in
                     Amendments
                                            existing ordinances.
                                             This bill enacts and amends provisions related to housing and affordable housing
                                             funding. It enacts provisions of municipal land use regulation with regard to certain types
                     Housing Affordability   of parking spaces; repeals the Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund; repeals the private
SB 181   Fillmore                                                                                                                        Under Review   Passed
                     Amendments              activity bond program; creates the Olene Walker State Housing Fund from the Olene
                                             Walker Housing Loan Fund and private activity bond program to consolidate
                                             administration of funds allocated for affordable housing across the state; and provides
                     Commercial Wind and This bill modifies tax credit requirements for certain commercial wind and solar energy
SB 192
         Owens       Solar Incentives    systems. It requires commercial wind and solar energy systems of 660 or more kilowatts Neutral                 Passed
Sub. 3
                     Amendments          to include battery storage systems to qualify for tax credits

                                         This bill addresses issues related to the disposal and recycling of electronic and solid
                                         waste. It requires a manufacturer of a consumer electronic device to provide information
                                         to a consumer at the point of sale about a collection, reuse, or recycling program for a
                     Recycling and Waste consumer electronic device; requires the Department of Environmental Quality
SB 217   Harper                                                                                                                            Support      Passed
                     Amendments          (department) to develop a public education program related to electronic and other
                                         waste; requires the department to publish information related to recycling programs and
                                         recycling resources on the department's website; and removes an exception for the
                                         department to charge more than one fee for the same solid waste
                                             Establishes standards for how the Division of Water Quality: regulates controls for storm
                     Construction            water runoff; imposes a fine for violation; and inspects construction sites impacting storm
SB 220   Musselman                                                                                                                       Neutral        Passed
                     Modifications           water runoff; establishes exceptions for the Department of Transportation; establishes
                                             penalties for non-compliance.
                                             This bill amends provisions related to affordable housing. It enacts provisions related to
                                             residential overlay for the development of certain types of dwellings on certain sized lots;
                     Housing Affordability   directs the Utah Housing Corporation to make rules regarding procedures, qualifications,
SB 262   Fillmore                                                                                                                            Oppose     Passed
                     Modifications           and requirements for private financial institutions that offer certain mortgage loans to first-
                                             time homebuyers; and provides that first-time home buyers may use certain mortgage
                                             loans for specified purposes.
                                        This bill creates the Government Records Office (the office) within the Division of
                     Government Records
                                        Archives and Records Service, and replaces the State Records Committee with the
SB 277   McKell      Management                                                                                                            Support      Passed
                                        director of the office, who is an attorney with knowledge and experience relating to
                     Amendments
                                        government records law and makes other changes relating to government records.

                                             This bill modifies provisions related to retail facility incentive payments. It modifies
                                             definitions; clarifies that the Governor's Office of Economic Opportunity may not offer a
                                             retail facility incentive payment; provides that a public entity may make a retail facility
                     Retail Facility
SB 280   Vickers                             incentive payment for a retail facility included as part of a mixed-use development that      Support      Passed
                     Amendments
                                             includes housing units, under certain circumstances; and modifies the process by which
                                             a public entity that makes a retail facility incentive payment submits a written report on
                                             the retail facility incentive payment to the Governor's Office of Economic Development.
                                      This bill addresses community reinvestment agencies. It allows an agency to extend a
                                      project area funds collection period for a project area that includes a superfund site; and
                                      requires a county auditor to: submit annual project area and tax increment data to the
                     Community
                                      Governor's Office of Economic Opportunity; and notify taxing entities of the end of a
SB 289   Harper      Development                                                                                                    Monitor     Passed
                                      project area funds collection period and the calculation of new growth attributed to the
                     Amendments
                                      project area. It clarifies that an agency that has funds withheld due to non-compliance
                                      with reporting requirements will receive those withheld funds once the agency complies
                                      with reporting requirements.
                                      This bill provides certain requirements that the Department of Transportation is required
                                      to meet when exercising eminent domain powers. It requires the Department of
                                      Transportation to meet certain requirements when exercising eminent domain powers,
                     Transportation   including: identification of the rights and interests being acquired, including the value
SB 325   Brammer     Condemnation     assigned to each right or interest; limiting the department's ability to construct an         Monitor     Failed
                     Amendments       improvement that interferes with the visibility of the owner for a certain time period;
                                      requiring just compensation before the department may obtain real property; and
                                      requiring written certification acknowledged by the condemnee indicating that each
                                      interest acquired has been assigned a separate value.
                                      Creates the Beehive Development Agency (agency) under Utah Constitution, Article XI,
                                      as a political subdivision of the state that is an independent, nonprofit, separate body
                                      corporate and politic, with perpetual succession, and a public corporation; establishes the
                                      agency board and describes the agency powers and duties; provides that the agency
                                      may designate up to three significant community impact project areas each calendar
                                      year; authorizes the agency to create a public infrastructure district for a significant
                                      community project area; describes the potential revenue sources of a significant
                                      community impact project areas including property tax differential, sales tax differential,
                                      and revenue generated by certain taxes; repeals provisions establishing the Governor's
                                      Office of Economic Opportunity (office) board of directors and the Unified Economic
                     Land Use and     Opportunity Commission; creates the Economic Opportunity Coordinating Council
SB 337   Cullimore   Development      (council); changes the executive director of the office to the chief executive officer;          Oppose   Failed
                     Amendments       provides that the chief executive officer shall: receive direction from the council regarding
                                      statewide strategic objectives; establish strategies for and actively recruit targeted
                                      industries identified by the council; encourage a business to permanently relocate to, or
                                      significantly expand operations in, the state; establish strategies for and actively support
                                      entrepreneurship and small business development; coordinate the economic
                                      development activities of the office, state, and authorities including the Military Installation
                                      Development Authority, the Utah Inland Port Authority, the Point of the Mountain State
                                      Land Authority, the Utah Lake Authority, the State Fair Park Authority, and the Utah
                                      Fairpark Area Investment and Restoration District; and coordinate with various
                                      departments and officials in order to consolidate the Division of Housing and Community
                                      Development within the office by July 1, 2026;




SENATE JOINT RESOLUTIONS
                  Joint Resolution     This joint resolution amends court rules on attorney confidentiality by amending Rule 26
                  Amending Court Rules of the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure to address the work-product doctrine with regard to a
SJR 4   Brammer                                                                                                                   Oppose   Passed
                  on Attorney          legislative audit; and amending Rule 504 of the Utah Rules of Evidence to address the
                  Confidentiality      attorney-client privilege with regard to a legislative audit.
CITY OF HOLLADAY
2025 OFFICIAL RESIDENT SURVEY
                                  KEY FINDINGS
1. Respondents believe that Holladay is heading in the right direction and give their quality of life an
   overall rating of 82/100. 90% respondents are at least somewhat likely to recommend Holladay to
   their friends and family.
2. In the open-ended responses, many people mentioned Holladay’s small-town charm, natural beauty,
   and community as reasons to why they love the city. Some raised concerns about population growth
   and traffic as things to prioritize in the next 3-5 years.
3. A total of 65% of respondents believe they are receiving an excellent or good service value for their
   tax dollars. Among individual city services, community events, garbage collection, and fire/emergency
   were highly rated. When asked where they would invest their budget for improvements, respondents
   allocated more money on average to surface maintenance of streets and roads than other services.
4. A large majority of respondents (82%) do not use public transport, and among these non-users, 41%
   remain unlikely to use public transit even if proposed changes are implemented.
5. Majority of respondents (82%) agree that sustainability is an important goal for Holladay to pursue.
   They believe preserving and growing trees and water conservation should be the highest priority
   projects to meet this goal.
METHODOLOGYSURVEY METHODOLOGY
• For this survey, 800 Holladay residents were
  sampled via address-based sampling from the
  publicly available registered voter file.

• Survey invitations were sent via email and text
                                                       (n = 165)
  messages, and interviews were completed online
  February 20 – March 17, 2025.                        (n = 144)

                                                       (n = 155)
• The data were weighted to reflect the
  demographics of registered voters in Holladay,       (n = 154)

  specifically in regard to age, gender, home          (n = 182)
  ownership, ethnicity, and city council district.

• 800 interviews among an estimated population
  of 31k results in a margin of error for the survey
  of plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.
CITY HEALTH & QUALITY OF LIFE
   HOLLADAY RATED WITH HIGH QUALITY OF LIFE
On average, residents in Holladay rate the quality of life an 82 which is five points higher than in 2022. Across districts the average is 80 or higher.




                          Average Rating by District Over Time
                                                                                                                                      Average = 82
                                         2017        2019         2022           2025

                         Overall
                                          81          82           77             82
                        District 1
                                                                                                                                                                               2025
                                        -----        -----         78             81
                        District 2      -----        -----         77             81
                        District 3      -----        -----         74             82
                        District 4      -----        -----         78             82
                        District 5      -----        -----         77             80




   Q: All things considered, on a scale from 0 to 100, with 0 being very low and 100 being very high, how would you rate your overall quality of life in Holladay? (n = 792)
 HOLLADAY IS GOING IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
Overall, nearly half of the respondents (46%) believe Holladay to be going in the right direction. District 1 and 3 have increased 9 and 16 points respectively
compared to 2022.

                                                                                City Direction
                                      Right direction                            Don't know/Unsure                      Wrong direction   Change From 2022


                                                                                                                                               +1%

                                                                                                                                               +9%

                                                                                                                                                -7%

                                                                                                                                               +16%

                                                                                                                                               +1%

                                                                                                                                               -10%


    Q: Overall, would you say the City of Holladay is headed in the right direction or the wrong direction? (n = 800)
 HOLLADAY IS GOING IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
Disregarding those who report that they are unsure of the direction that Holladay is headed, 72% of residents report that Holladay is going in the right direction.




                                                                                                  City Direction

                                                                                                                        Wrong
                                                                                                                        Direction 28%




                                                 Right Direction
                                                 72%




    Q: Overall, would you say the City of Holladay is headed in the right direction or the wrong direction? (n = 800)
 HIGH APPROVAL RATINGS FOR CITY OFFICIALS
Majority of the respondents (82%) at least approve of City Council and the Holladay Mayor, which is slightly higher compared to 2022 (79%).


                                                                      City Official Approval
                                                                                                                                                     2022:
                              Strongly approve                        Approve                         Disapprove   Strongly disapprove   % Strongly Approve + Approve


                                                                                                                                                    79%

                                                                                                                                                    75%

                                                                                                                                                    79%

                                                                                                                                                    79%

                                                                                                                                                    86%

                                                                                                                                                    76%

 Q: Do you approve or disapprove of how the Holladay Mayor and City Council are handling their jobs? (n = 780)
 MAJORITY ARE LIKELY TO RECOMMEND HOLLADAY
Vast majority of respondents (90%) are at least somewhat likely to recommend Holladay to friends and family.



                                                                                                                                2022:
                                                                      Holladay Recommendation                      % Very Likely + Somewhat Likely


                                                                                                                              88%

                                                                                                                              86%

                                                                                                                              86%

                                                                                                                              89%

                                                                                                                              92%

                                                                                                                              89%
Q: How likely are you to recommend the City of Holladay to friends and family as a good place to live? (n = 799)
 MAJORITY ARE LIKELY TO RECOMMEND HOLLADAY
When asked what they like about Holladay, respondents mentioned the location, the quiet and safe community, and accessibility to essentials.




                                                                          “Location, freeway access,
                                                                          my home, safety, people are
                                                                           friendly, beautiful wooded                 "Quality of life, good
                                                                            neighborhoods, Holladay                                   88%
                                                                                                                      people, availability to
                                                                               Center, low traffic”                  shopping, restaurants,
                                                                                                                     and daily necessities.”
                                                                                                                                       86


                                                                          "Kind people, convenient
                                                                           location, good views of
                                                                                  nature.”                       "Small town feel close
                                                                                                                     to the city.”




 Q: What do you like most about living in Holladay? (n = 769)
 RESIDENTS SAY COMMUNITY SETS HOLLADAY APART
Respondents were asked what makes Holladay unique and people mentioned the community and its small town feel and the beautiful scenery.




                                                                                                           “Beautiful setting, clean
                                                                                                         atmosphere, friendliness of
                                                                                                         neighborhoods, quiet streets
                                                                                                           (excepting main routes),
                                                                                                                good schools.”
                                                                                                                                                                        "Freedom from the
                                                                                                                                                                          hustle of other
                                                                                                                                                                             locales.”




                                                                                                            "Respected community
                                                                                                              with great homes.”
                                                                                                                                                                      "It’s quaint and
                                                                                                                                                                         charming.”




   Q: Based on what you have seen or heard about other cities and towns, what would you say makes Holladay unique or different from other communities along the Wasatch Front? (n = 715)
 GROWTH, TRAFFIC, AND HOUSING ARE RESIDENTS’ TOP ISSUES
Growth, traffic, housing, and population control were some of the main concerns individuals had when asked about the top issues in Holladay.




                                                                                                          “Growth- with more housing
                                                                                                         being built and how to sustain
                                                                                                         that growth while keeping the
                                                                                                            current feel of the city.”
                                                                                                                                              "Traffic because of
                                                                                                                                              the old Cottonwood
                                                                                                                                                  Mall area.”




                                                                                                            "Population growth, too
                                                                                                             many new apartment
                                                                                                              buildings, increased         "Economy. I would like
                                                                                                                     traffic.”            to see a little relaxing on
                                                                                                                                            building restrictions. I
                                                                                                                                             would like to build a
                                                                                                                                               smaller house.”



 Q: In your opinion, what is the most important issue facing Holladay in the next 3-5 years? (n = 775)
CITY SERVICES
 MAJORITY INDICATE POSITIVE ROI FOR THEIR TAX DOLLAR
Respondents overall have a positive view of how their tax dollars have been spent in Holladay. Compared to 2022, there was an 8-point increase in people who
believed that the tax value was good.
                                                                                 Tax Value
                                                                                                                                    2022:
                                 Excellent                            Good                             Fair   Poor            % Excellent + Good


                                                                                                                                   57%
                                                                                                                                   63%

                                                                                                                                   59%

                                                                                                                                   51%

                                                                                                                                   57%

                                                                                                                                   53%

 Q: In general, how do you rate the service you receive from Holladay for your tax dollar? (n = 795)
  RESIDENTS SHARE POSITIVE SENTIMENTS ABOUT DAILY LIFE
Respondents overwhelmingly agree that Holladay is safe and is a great place to live. 54% of respondents at least somewhat agree that Holladay is growing in a
positive way.
                                                                                         Holladay Statements
                                                                                                                                                2022:
                                                                                                 Neither agree nor   Somewhat    Strongly    % Strongly +
                                                      Strongly agree        Somewhat agree
                                                                                                     disagree         disagree   disagree   Somewhat agree

                                                                                                                                               82%

                                                                                                                                               83%

                                                                                                                                               68%

                                                                                                                                               60%

                                                                                                                                                49%

   Q: To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements about Holladay? (n = 799)
 LOCALLY OWNED STORES & RESTAURANTS ARE MOST DESIRED
For those who disagreed that Holladay has all kinds of businesses, 82% want to see more locally owned restaurants and 58% want to see more locally owned
retail stores.

                                                                                          Holladay Businesses




    Q: Which of the following kinds of businesses would you most like to see more of in Holladay? Please select up to three. (n = 638)
 RESIDENTS MOST SATISFIED WITH COMMUNITY EVENTS
Community events, city parks, and emergency preparedness are the highest rated relative to the other in-house city services. Overall, the services are
moderately rated with the lowest being 46.

                                                                                      Holladay City Services




    Q: Holladay provides several services to its residents. Some are provided directly by the city, and some are provided by districts or agencies that the city works with. The first group of services are provided
    directly by the city. Please rate each of the following services using a 0 to 100 scale with 0 meaning you are completely dissatisfied and 100 meaning you are completely satisfied. If you are unfamiliar with a
    service, select Not applicable. (n = 630)
 IN-HOUSE SERVICE RATINGS STAY LARGELY CONSISTENT
Most of the services are staying consistent over the years. Emergency preparedness and water conservation service ratings have increased since 2022, while
perceptions of sidewalk maintenance have declined since 2022.

                                                                                  Service Ratings Over Time




                                                                                                                                                                                   Community events

                                                                                                                                                                                   City parks & open spaces

                                                                                                                                                                                   Emergency preparedness

                                                                                                                                                                                   Street lighting
                                                                                                                                                                                   City code enforcement
                                                                                                                                                                                   Water conservation
                                                                                                                                                                                   Planning, zoning, & building
                                                                                                                                                                                   Sidewalk maintenance




    Q: Holladay provides several services to its residents. Some are provided directly by the city, and some are provided by districts or agencies that the city works with. The first group of services are provided
    directly by the city. Please rate each of the following services using a 0 to 100 scale with 0 meaning you are completely dissatisfied and 100 meaning you are completely satisfied. If you are unfamiliar with a
    service, select Not applicable. (n = 630)
 RESIDENTS HIGHLY RATE CONTRACTED SERVICES
The services the City outsources are highly rated, with all of them scoring above 50. Fire and emergency services and garbage collection are the highest-rated,
with ratings of 83 and 81 respectively.

                                                                                             Holladay Agency Services




   Q: This second group of services is provided by some other district or agency that the city works with. Please rate each of the following services using a 0 to 100 scale with 0 meaning you are completely
   dissatisfied and 100 meaning you are completely satisfied. If you are unfamiliar with a service, select Not applicable. (n = 643)
 SLIGHT UPWARD TREND SINCE 2022 FOR CONTRACTED SERVICES
Majority of the agency services ratings have gone up since 2022 with the highest jump being snow removal and police services. Ratings for surface maintenance
of streets and roads has stayed consistent since 2022.

                                                                                  Service Ratings Over Time


                                                                                                                                                                                Fire & EMS
                                                                                                                                                                                Garbage collection
                                                                                                                                                                                Snow removal
                                                                                                                                                                                Culinary water
                                                                                                                                                                                Police
                                                                                                                                                                                Recycling program
                                                                                                                                                                                Animal control



                                                                                                                                                                                Surface maintenance




  Q: This second group of services is provided by some other district or agency that the city works with. Please rate each of the following services using a 0 to 100 scale with 0 meaning you are completely
  dissatisfied and 100 meaning you are completely satisfied. If you are unfamiliar with a service, select Not applicable. (n = 643)
 RESPONDENTS WANT MORE SIDEWALKS
Many respondents mentioned the need for more sidewalks in their area as well as better response times from the City, with the occasional mention of animal
control or improvements to other services.

                                  City Code Enforcement                                                                                                    Holladay City Services


                                                                                                                             “It’s really hard to walk in
                                                                                                                             the neighborhood without
       “There are no sidewalks                                                                                                       sidewalks."                                       “Road paving delayed
         or city parks in my                                  "Sidewalk installation                                                                                                      but improved.”
           neighborhood”                                         did not go well.”




                                                                                                                                  "City planning
      "Takes too long to get                                                                                                     department was
       approval to build or                                       "The property I have                                        responsive and mostly                                  "We need better animal
           remodel…”                                             reported over the past                                           transparent.”                                        control services in
                                                                 5 years still is a mess                                                                                                  Holladay...”
                                                                 in fact getting worse.”




  Q: If you have any comments you would like to briefly share about your experience with any of the services listed previously in the past year, please enter them here. (n = 364)
 INVESTING IN SURFACE MAINTENANCE IS A PRIORITY
Surface maintenance, city parks, and police, received the highest average budget allocations. Given the relatively low satisfaction ratings for surface
maintenance on city streets and roads, its clear that residents identify this as a key area for improvement.

                                                                                                 Service Budget Allocation
                                                                                                                                                                              $11.94




     Q: Suppose you were responsible for allocating $100 of the Holladay City budget. How would you want to see the city divide your $100 among the city services? (You may spend the $100 all in one category or
     divide it up as you please, but the total must be $100.) (n = 703)
NEIGHBORHOOD IMPROVEMENTS
 ATTITUDES RE: NEIGHBORHOOD LOOK, CONNECTEDNESS IMPROVED
Compared to 2022, more respondents agree that their neighborhood looks good (74%) and that it is connected to the city (70%).


                                                                                 Neighborhood Statements
                                                                                                                                                    2022:
                                                                               Somewhat            Neither agree       Somewhat    Strongly   % Strongly agree +
                                                       Strongly agree                                                                          Somewhat agree
                                                                                 agree             nor disagree         disagree   disagree


                                                                                                                                                   68%

                                                                                                                                                   48%

                                                                                                                                                   63%

                                                                                                                                                   40%

                                                                                                                                                   40%

                                                                                                                                                   50%
  Q: How much do you agree or disagree with the following statements about your neighborhood and the City? (n = 700)
 GENERAL SATISFACTION WITH AMOUNT & QUALITY OF STREETLIGHTS
The majority of respondents believe there are the right number of streetlights and that their quality if adequate. However, 40% believe that more streetlights
should be installed.




                                                                               Too many                              Right Amount                             Not Enough



        Number of Streetlights




                                                                              Too Bright                               Adequate                           Not Bright Enough




        Quality of Streetlights




   Q: Some residents would like to see additional streetlights in Holladay City neighborhoods to increase safety and visibility, while other residents would prefer to preserve the dark skies and limit li... (n = 689)
TRANSIT
 OVERWHELMING MAJORITY DO NOT USE PUBLIC TRANSIT
82% of respondents said that they never or almost never use public transit in Holladay in the past year.




                                                                                          Public Transit Frequency


                                                                                                                        Once or twice a                           Never or almost
                              Every day                A few times a week            Once or twice a week                                 A few times this year
                                                                                                                           month                                      never




 Q: How often have you used public transit (e.g., the UTA bus system) to travel in or around Holladay in the past year? (n = 697)
 RESPONDENTS PREFER TO DRIVE, BIKE, OR WALK
Of those who do not take public transit, 68% prefer to drive, bike, or walk. 25% of respondents said that public transit is not capable of getting them where they
need to go.

                                                                                                              Preferred Transportation




 Q: Which of the following reasons explain why you do not use public transit very often? Please select all that apply. (n = 672)
 THOSE OPEN TO TRANSIT WANT MORE ROUTES & VARIETY OF MODES
41% of respondents who don’t use transit don’t believe that any of the proposed options will motivate them to use public transit. However, more access to
types of transit and new direct routes would convince some non-users to use public transportation.

                                                                                                   Proposed Transit Changes




    Q: Which of the following, if any, would most likely motivate you to use the public transit system more often? Please select all that apply. (n = 663)
CITY COMMUNICATIONS
 HIGH INTEREST IN CITY NEWSLETTERS AT LEAST QUARTERLY
72% of respondents are at least somewhat interested in receiving a city newsletter. Most respondents (55%) would prefer receiving the newsletter either once a
month or once every two months.


                                                                                      Extremely                                              Somewhat                                         Not at all
                                                                                                              Very interested                                      Not vey interested
                                                                                      interested                                             interested                                      interested




             City Newsletter Interest




                                                                                                          Once every              Once per
                                                                                  Once a month                                                         Twice a year            Once a year       Never
                                                                                                          two months               quarter




            City Newsletter Frequency



 Q: How interested, if at all, would you be in receiving a City newsletter that was mailed to residents – separate from the City's insert in the Holladay Journal? (n = 691)
  Q: How often would you like to receive a Holladay City newsletter in the mail? (n = 500)
 POSITIVE COMMENTS ABOUT CITY RESPONSIVENESS
Of the respondents who said they contacted a Holladay office (35%), many praised the staff’s assistance and friendliness.



                             Contacted Holladay

                                                                                                                       “I rarely need to contact the
                                                                     Yes: 35%                                          city, but when I do, they are
                                                                                                                          accessible, friendly and           "I asked for info on the
                                                                                                                        responsive. I appreciate all         spring lane elementary
                                                                                                                               that they do.”                 park project and got a
                                                                                                                                                               sufficient and timely
                                                                                                                                                                    response.”




                                                                                                                      "I went to the planning
                                                                                                                     and zoning office to find
                                                                                                                       out about a proposed
                                                                                                                                                       “We are fortunate to have
                                                                                                                       zoning change. They                 intelligent, helpful,
     No: 65%                                                                                                             were very helpful.”            friendly, and polite city
                                                                                                                                                               employees.”




   Q: During the past year have you contacted any Holladay office to seek service, information, or to file a complaint? (n = 691)
 NEARLY EQUAL SATISFACTION AND DISSATISFACTION
Of those who filed a complaint with the city, 46% were somewhat satisfied with the response, while 41% were dissatisfied with the city’s response.




                                                                                       Service Satisfaction
                                                                                          Neither satisfied nor
                                  Very satisfied                  Somewhat satisfied                              Somewhat dissatisfied   Very dissatisfied
                                                                                              dissatisfied




 Q: Were you generally satisfied or dissatisfied with the City’s response? (n = 258)
CITY INITIATIVES & FOCUS AREAS
 4-IN-5 RESIDENTS INDICATE SUSTAINABILITY IS IMPORTANT
82% of respondents believe sustainability in the Holladay is at least somewhat important.




                                                                                   Importance of Sustainability
                             Very important                            Somewhat important                              Not very important                             Not at all important




   Q: Generally speaking, how important would you say it is for Holladay City to take action to become a more sustainable, environmentally friendly city? (n = 661)
 TREES & WATER CONSERVATION HIGHEST SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES
Majority of respondents (73%) believe that preserving and planting trees is a project that Holladay should pursue. Additionally, 64% of respondents also believe
water conservation to be an important project to work on.


                                                                                                      Sustainability Projects




    Q: Which, if any, of the following do you think Holladay City should actively pursue to become a more sustainable city? (n = 655)
 SMALL COMMERCIAL & MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT GAIN IN APPEAL
While substantial shares of respondents desire more single-family homes in their area (40%) as well as small shopping centers (32%), there is interest in having
increased missing-middle housing in the City generally. Very few respondents want student housing (2%), apartments (7%), or senior housing (9%) in their area.

                                                                                          Housing & Development




 Q: Which, if any, of the following new or additional features would fit well into your area of the City? (n = 685)
  Q: Which, if any, of the following new or additional features might not fit well into your area of the City, but would be nice to have somewhere in Holladay? (n = 678)
 RESPIRATORY & MENTAL HEALTH, INSURANCE HAVE BIG IMPACT
The top three public health concerns that have affected respondents at least quite a lot are: respiratory disease (49%), mental health (43%), and health
insurance coverage (42%).
                                                                                                   Public Health Concerns
                                                                        A great deal          Quit a lot         Somewhat              A little   Not at all




    Q: To what extent have each of the following public health concerns had an impact on you or members of your household? (n = 206)
 RESIDENTS BELIEVE THEY ARE WELL PREPARED FOR EMERGENCIES
75% of respondents believe that their household is at least somewhat well prepared for an emergency if it were to affect them. They are also confident that
their local churches will be prepared as well (59%). However, they don’t know how the city or local business will respond to an emergency.

                                                                                                      Emergency Preparation
                                                                                          Somewhat well                    Not very well                   Not at all well
                                                       Very well prepared                                                                                                                    Don't know
                                                                                            prepared                        prepared                         prepared




    Q: How well-prepared would you say each of the following groups or organizations are to respond in the event of a natural disaster or other emergency, if one were to affect our community in Holladay? (n = 671)
 STATE & LOCAL GOV, CHURCHES POISED AS SECONDARY SUPP0ORT
Respondents are most likely going to seek support from their household (74%) over all other options if an emergency arises.


                                                                                         Emergency Support Groups
                                                      Very likely             Somewhat likely              Not very likely            Not at all likely              Don't know




  Q: How likely would you be to seek assistance or support from each of the following groups or organizations in the event of a natural disaster or other emergency? (n = 657)
 TEXT MESSAGE ALERTS PREFERRED FOR EMERGENCY UPDATES
Text messages (39%) and social media (12%) are the main sources of information that respondents said they would look for reliable information.



                                                                                              Sources of Information




   Q: If Holladay were to experience a natural disaster or other emergency, where would you be most likely to turn for reliable information and updates? (n = 658)
Kyrene Gibb, Partner & VP of Research
Quin Monson, Ph.D., Founding Partner
   y2analytics.com | 801.406.7877
SAMPLE DEMOGRAPHICS
                                                                                                        Gender
                                                                                          Female: 52%




                                                                                                                 Male: 48%

          Q: Which of the following best describes how you think of yourself? (n = 659)
SAMPLE DEMOGRAPHICS
                                                                                 Age




          Q: Please enter the year you were born (YYYY, e.g., 1975): (n = 641)
SAMPLE DEMOGRAPHICS
                                                                              Ethnicity
                                                                   Non-White: 15%




                                                                                      White: 85%

          Q: Are you...? Please select all that apply. (n = 647)
SAMPLE DEMOGRAPHICS
                                                                        Education




          Q: What is the last year of school you completed? (n = 657)
SAMPLE DEMOGRAPHICS
                                                          Employment




           Q: What is your employment status? (n = 659)
SAMPLE DEMOGRAPHICS
                                            Marital Status




          Q: Are you currently… (n = 655)
SAMPLE DEMOGRAPHICS
                                                                            Income




           Q: What do you expect your 2025 family income to be? (n = 615)
SAMPLE DEMOGRAPHICS
                                                               Time Lived




           Q: How long have you lived in Holladay? (n = 665)
SAMPLE DEMOGRAPHICS
                                                                                               Home Ownership




          Q: Which of the following best describes where you are currently living? (n = 662)
SAMPLE DEMOGRAPHICS
                                                                                                    Living Situation




          Q: Which, if any, of the following categories describe members of your household? Please select all that apply
          to the individuals who live in your home. Children under the age of 18 (n = 651)
City of Holladay




Financial Policies
Table of Contents

Introduction ........................................................................................ 1
General Fund Reserve......................................................................... 1
Reserve Policies in Other Funds ........................................................ 2
Revenue .............................................................................................. 3
Expenditure ........................................................................................ 4
Operating Budget ............................................................................... 4
Capital Asset Management ................................................................. 6
Long-Term Financial Planning .......................................................... 6
Debt .................................................................................................... 7
Accounting, Auditing, and Financial Reporting ................................ 8
Internal Control and Risk Management ............................................. 9
Procurement ...................................................................................... 10
Cash Receipting and Deposit ............................................................ 11
Investment ......................................................................................... 11
Credit Card Payment ......................................................................... 12
City Issued Credit Cards .................................................................... 13
Introduction
Purpose

The purpose of Financial Policies is to set forth parameters and guidelines for prudent ﬁscal
operational practices and management. These policies have been approved by management and
formally adopted by resolution by the Holladay City Council.



Formal Adoption of Financial Policies

The City of Holladay Financial Policies were updated and adopted by a resolution of the Holladay
City Council (insert resolution) on April X, 2025.


General Fund Reserve
Purpose:

The purpose of the City of Holladay’s general fund reserve policies is to ensure the city is complying
with Utah state law. Additionally, these policies enable the city to plan for contingencies, maintain a
good standing with rating agencies, avoid interest expenses, generate investment income, and
ensure cash availability when revenue is unavailable.



Policies:

Utah Code § 10-6-116 requires municipalities to maintain an unrestricted (committed, assigned,
and unassigned) general fund balance between ﬁve and thirty-ﬁve percent of general fund
revenues. Holladay will maintain a General Fund balance (reserve) of no less than ﬁfteen percent of
budgeted general fund revenues.



The amount in reserves will be calculated by adding the ﬁscal year ending committed, assigned,
and unassigned fund balances less the fund balance appropriated in the subsequent ﬁscal year.
Holladay will maintain a General Fund balance (reserve) of ﬁfteen percent of budgeted general fund
revenues, though the City Council may direct staff to reserve up to the state limit of thirty-ﬁve
percent.



The reserve may be used at the discretion of the City Council for unanticipated, non-recurring
needs, temporary shortfalls, or in a state of emergency. Once used, reserves should be replenished
in a timely manner. Unassigned general fund balance in excess of ﬁfteen percent may be used for
one-time purchases. Additionally, the City may periodically use unassigned fund balance when


                                                                                            1|Pa ge
property tax rates have been increased in a prior year to cover operating expenses in future years.
This is done in an effort to avoid the need for annual property tax rate increases.


Reserve Policies in Other Funds
Purpose:

Holladay's reserve policies provide working capital for the city. These funds support continuity of
operations, maintain a stable fee structure, and provide capital replacement funds. Such policies
also contribute to maintaining a good standing with credit agencies and create a better working
relationship between the governing board and staff.



Policies:

Capital Projects Fund

This fund is used to accumulate funds for capital projects and to track spending on capital projects.
Reserve funds will ﬂuctuate as projects are identiﬁed.



Storm Water Utility Fund

The City of Holladay will strive to maintain working capital (current assets minus current liabilities)
of no less than 60 days’ worth of annual operating expenses in the Storm Water Utility Fund.



To maintain adequate reserves, Holladay should conduct an analysis of its utility rates on a regular
basis. Rate increases, if needed, shall be proposed to the City Council during the annual budgeting
process.



To substantiate the value of Accounts Receivable in the enterprise funds, the City will work with
contracted agencies to ensure accurate and timely collection.



The minimum working capital reserve may be used at the discretion of the City Council for
temporary shortfalls or to downsize operations. Once used, the reserve should be replenished in a
timely manner. If reserves fall below the 60-day minimum, a plan for replenishment should be
included in the subsequent year’s budget planning process. Excess working capital may be used for
capital improvements or for one-time purchases.




                                                                                             2|Pa ge
Other Funds:

Adequate reserves will be considered.


Revenue
Purpose:

Holladay has established revenue policies to ensure sufficient and stable revenues in order to
consistently produce desired programs and services. These policies help create and maintain fair
and consistent revenue sources.



Policies:

The City of Holladay strives to achieve diversiﬁcation and stabilization of the revenue base. While
recognizing that property taxes are the most stable, the City will not increase property taxes so long
as other revenues such as sales tax and franchise fees are adequately funding operations.



Holladay will not use one-time revenues towards ongoing expenditures. User fees will be charged to
obtain cost recovery for regulatory services such as building permits, plan checks, and business
licensing.



Administrative fees will be charged by the General Fund to the Enterprise Funds to recapture direct
and indirect costs which beneﬁt all funds. These fees will be reviewed annually in association with
the budget process. A municipal fee schedule shall be reviewed and adopted by the City Council in
conjunction with the operating and capital budgets.



Before applying for and accepting grants and donations, the City will assess the merits of a
particular program as if it were funded with local tax dollars. Local tax dollars will not be used to
make up for losses of intergovernmental aid without ﬁrst reviewing the program and its merits as a
budgetary increment.



A conservative approach will be used to forecast revenues. However, when such an approach leads
to considerations of raising taxes or cutting services, a more objective approach will be analyzed in
order to avoid undesirable budget-balancing measures that later prove unnecessary. Multi-year
forecasts will be prepared and presented to the Council annually as part of the budget process.




                                                                                            3|Pa ge
Expenditure
Purpose:

Holladay's expenditure policies ensure that public funds are spent with integrity, directness, and
transparency. City policy ensures these expenditures are directed to services that support City
Council priorities and community needs.



Policies:

Ongoing expenditures will not expand beyond the City of Holladay’s ability to pay for them with
current revenues. When practical, resources should be used for preventative investments that can
be made to avoid larger costs in the future. Funding for new programs and services should be
limited to the extent that they can be reasonably funded over the near to long term given the current
revenue stream.



Increasing efficiencies and effectiveness of the delivery of City services through process review,
technology improvements, or outsourcing must be considered before adding permanent staff. Staff
shall prepare an analysis of costs borne by the General Fund which beneﬁts other funds, most
importantly, enterprise funds. Enterprise Funds will reimburse the General Fund for these costs
through administrative fees, which are appropriated as part of the budget each year.



Efforts will be made to maintain compensation packages that are sufficient to attract and retain
quality employees.



Salary range structures shall be evaluated periodically to determine the relative competitiveness of
the pay structure to the job market. The midpoint of the salary range is the market value against
which the City will assess its pay plan relative to the job market. If the midpoint of the City’s salary
range is more than ﬁve percent below the market for any given position, the grade of that particular
position will be adjusted upward.



Holladay’s pay plan shall be reviewed and adopted annually by the City Council in conjunction with
the annual budget. Staffing shall not exceed the authorized level, and all new positions must be
approved by the City Council before fulﬁllment.


Operating Budget
Purpose:

                                                                                             4|Pa ge
Holladay recognizes operating budget policies as being among the most important public
documents produced by the city. Operating budget policies ensure the budget establishes the city's
taxing and spending direction. Policies are set to create enough leeway to ﬂuctuate with community
and economic need.



Policies:

The City of Holladay will adopt an annual operating budget for all funds. Budgets are prepared on a
modiﬁed accrual basis. This includes the City’s proprietary funds which use full accrual basis in the
Annual Comprehensive Financial Statements. Proprietary funds are budgeted for on modiﬁed
accrual basis because this approach aligns more closely with the nature of governmental ﬁnancial
planning and resource management. Under the modiﬁed accrual basis, capital expenditures and
the redemption of bonds are recorded as expenditures. Depreciation and amortization costs are
not budgeted since these costs are non-cash transactions. However, staff will perform an analysis
to ensure each proprietary fund will not go over budget when depreciation expense is factored.



Budget policies deﬁne the broad guidelines under which the budget process will operate. Staff is
then responsible for designing a process that conforms to the policies. Because the city’s budget is
a spending plan, and because circumstances change throughout the ﬁscal year, staff may propose
budget adjustments for any or all funds throughout the year. Those adjustments require discussion
and adoption by the City Council to become effective.



The City Manager has authority to reallocate line items within a department budget, but any
interdepartmental budget adjustments must be approved by the City Council. Grants, additional
personnel, new programs, etc. must be appropriated by the City Council.



The City Manager and Finance Director, after meeting with all City departments, will present a
balanced budget for adoption to the Mayor and City Council in May of each year. This document will
serve as a working tool for the City Council in developing their operating budget. Consistent with
Utah Code § 10-6-111, a tentative budget will be prepared and ﬁled with the City’s elected officials
on or before the ﬁrst regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body in May of the current
period. The tentative budget will be reviewed and discussed in Council meetings throughout May
and June. A public hearing will be held prior to the adoption of the ﬁnal budget.



Citizen participation and comment is encouraged. Consistent with Utah Code § 10-6-118, the City
Council will adopt a ﬁnal budget before June 30 of each ﬁscal period, or, in the case of a property
tax increase, before September 1st of the year for which a property tax increase is proposed. The

                                                                                          5|Pa ge
City Council will adopt its certiﬁed property tax rate on the same date as the ﬁnal budget is
adopted.


Capital Asset Management
Purpose:

Holladay recognizes the impact capital asset management policies and projects have on the
quality of local government services, the community's economic vitality, and the overall quality of
life for citizens. Capital asset management policy encouraging optimal decision-making. The
policies will develop and maintain a capital improvement plan which includes realistic project
timing, scope, and operating budget impacts.



Policies:

The City of Holladay will develop and maintain a Capital Improvement Plan which includes realistic
project timing, scope, and operating budget impacts.



Appropriations for capital projects are for the period of construction or acquisition, and do not
lapse at the end of the ﬁscal year. Funds remaining in the project budget after its completion may
be appropriated for other capital projects.



Maintaining appropriate funding for maintenance is of upmost importance. Deferring maintenance
or asset replacement has the potential to reduce a government’s ability to provide services and/or
threaten public health, safety and overall quality of life. In addition, as the physical condition of an
asset declines, deferring maintenance and/or replacement may increase long-term costs and
liabilities.



Department managers/heads shall exercise supervision of all inventories of tangible City property
within the control of or assigned to their departments, including ensuring all City assets are
safeguarded and kept in good working condition. All city property located in warehouse(s) or
storage areas shall be inventoried annually, and accountability for the property shall reside with the
respective department head.


Long-Term Financial Planning
Purpose:




                                                                                              6|Pa ge
Holladay's long-term ﬁnancial planning policies assist the city with providing stable tax and service
levels for the community over a multi-year period. The policies help uncover minor problems which
could require drastic action later if left unresolved. These policies signal Holladay's commitment to
sound ﬁnancial management and willingness to control spending.



Policies:

Each year, staff shall develop a forecast of operating expenditures and revenue for the next ﬁve
years. The presentation and discussion of the forecast and resulting long-term ﬁnancial plan will be
an integral part of the annual budget process. Holladay will address imbalances in future revenues
and expenditures in establishing property tax rates.


Debt
Purpose:

Holladay's debt policies ensure debt is used wisely, and that future ﬁnancial ﬂexibility remains
relatively unconstrained. Criteria for the issuance of debt obligations ensure acceptable levels of
indebtedness are maintained. Debt policy shows investors and rating agencies that Holladay is
committed to sound ﬁnancial management, providing consistency and continuity in public policy
development.



Policies:

The City of Holladay may use debt to help distribute the payments for a capital asset over its useful
life so that beneﬁts more closely match costs. The City may also use pay-as-you-go ﬁnancing, in
that it helps to keep the City’s debt burden down. As there are merits to both methods of ﬁnancing,
Holladay may use a combination of debt and pay-as-you-go to ﬁnance capital assets.



Using long-term debt for operations is discouraged. Issuing debt with a longer amortization period
than the life of the asset it is ﬁnancing is prohibited.



Debt service as a percent of general expenditures of the General Fund will not exceed ﬁfteen
percent. Capitalization of interest, the practice of using bond proceeds to pay the interest due on
debt during the construction period of an asset, is generally acceptable. Long-term ﬁnancing must
comply with federal, state, and local legal requirements.




                                                                                           7|Pa ge
The City of Holladay will consider debt issuance (rather than paying cash) subject to market
conditions. The City might use its debt capacity to acquire capital assets for a lower total cost when
construction costs are increasing or are very low. Holladay will engage the following outside
professionals to assist with bond sales, as bond sales are not a routine activity for most local
governments:

   A. Financial Advisor

   B. Bond Counsel

   C. Underwriter

   D. Paying Agent/Registrar

Bond proceeds will be invested in accordance with the City’s general investment policy. Staff must
take steps to minimize arbitrage liability on bond proceeds in order to avoid penalties. Refunding
bonds will be considered when there is an interest rate savings, a change in anticipated revenues,
or when the City Council desires a change in the provisions of a bond covenant.



Holladay shall comply with all ongoing disclosure conditions and shall ﬁle such required
documents in a timely manner. Interfund loans are contemplated for short-term use only. Any
transfers between funds where reimbursement is not expected within one ﬁscal year shall not be
recorded as interfund borrowings; they shall be recorded as interfund operating transfers.


Accounting, Auditing, and Financial Reporting
Purpose:

Accounting, auditing, and ﬁnancial reporting policy sets the tone for how Holladay accounts for its
ﬁnancial resources and its accountability to publicly available ﬁnancial information. The policies
satisfy external ﬁnancial reporting requirements while meeting Holladay's managerial needs.



Policies:

The City of Holladay has established an Audit Committee to serve as a practical means for the City
to provide independent review and oversight of the government’s ﬁnancial reporting processes,
framework of internal control, and independent auditors. The Audit Committee shall report to the
City Council at least annually.



Accounting records will be maintained in accordance with state and federal law and regulations.
Holladay adopts the Government Finance Officers Association recommendation that governments


                                                                                           8|Pa ge
use a multi-year audit contract for a period of no less than ﬁve years. Annual ﬁnancial reporting in
compliance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) is required.



Monthly revenue and expenditure reports for each fund shall be presented to the City Council. A
listing of checks issued shall be supplied to the Mayor monthly. The City will strive for transparency
and shall comply with all state records transparency requirements.



Capital assets are deﬁned as assets costing at least $5,000 with an expected useful life in excess of
one year. Sensitive non-capitalized items such as computers shall be inventoried and controlled.


Internal Control and Risk Management
Purpose:

Holladay's internal control and risk management policies protect assets to ensure service
continuity, maintain a safe work and service environment, and efficiency of risk management
activities.



Policies:

The City of Holladay should work closely with its insurer to accomplish goals stated above and to
minimize the cost of risk management activities. The City shall designate a Risk Manager and hold
quarterly meetings to review insurance claims and reported incidents.



Employees will be provided with the official City of Holladay Employee Handbook regarding
employment, and shall ﬁle an acknowledgment of receipt and understanding of the manual with
the Human Resources department. City employees and council members are required to report
conﬂicts of interest and to refrain from participating in or deliberating on any matters regarding
such interest. Sexual harassment training shall be conducted for all employees.



Holladay shall appoint an Emergency Management Coordinator who is responsible for maintaining
the City’s Emergency Management Plan. Holladay staff will participate in regional and statewide
safety exercises in coordination with area police and ﬁre.



Internal Controls shall be developed to separate duties, provide security over assets and records,
ensure periodic reconciliation and veriﬁcation, and ensure proper authorization.


                                                                                            9|Pa ge
Procurement
Purpose:

The City of Holladay will purchase goods and services in a manner that ensures all such purchases
are made fairly, equitably, efficiently, and economically and in the best interest of its residents.
(Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-2016)



Policies:

This chapter applies to agreements for the procurement of supplies, services and construction
entered into by the City. This chapter applies to every expenditure of public funds by the City for
public purchasing, irrespective of the source of the funds. Any expenditure involving Federal funds
shall comply with applicable Federal law and regulations. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
City from complying with the terms and conditions of any grant, gift or bequest that is otherwise
consistent with law.



The City may take any action with respect to purchasing, bidding and contracting that is in the best
interest of the City, including rejecting any bid from a bidder in an adverse position to the City in the
present, pending or threatened litigation. The City may also reject a nonresponsive bid, and may
reject bids when the City's interest will be served, unless this rejection would be contrary to existing
law or be considered arbitrary. Finally, the Holladay may waive or modify requirements within a
particular bid process when it is in the best interest of the City, and when it is consistent with
mandatory applicable legal requirements and fair and equitable practices. (Ord. 2016-28, 11-3-
2016)



The City Manager may act as the Purchasing Agent. The City Manager may delegate authority to
purchase certain supplies, services or construction items to other City officials, if the delegation is
necessary for the effective procurement of those items. The City Manager may designate a
Purchasing Agent whose duties include procurement, soliciting bids and proposals, advising City
departments regarding procurements, maintaining a bidders' list and vendor ﬁles, as well as
records needed for purchasing. Responsibility rests with employees who purchase goods and
services, department directors, and the City Manager.



The purchasing agent or any department or division may prepare, ﬁle or amend speciﬁcations,
requisitions or quantity estimates for supplies and services.



Additional Procurement Policy can be found in Chapter 2.11 of the Holladay City Code.

                                                                                             10 | P a g e
Cash Receipting and Deposit
Purpose:

Cash receipting and deposit policy establishes a uniform control design for all departments of
Holladay that receive cash.



Policies:

The City of Holladay has established cash receipting and deposit policies to ensure all cash
received is handled transparently and appropriately. Guidelines have been set for the handling of
checks as well. Departments handling cash are required to track and conﬁrm all cash and check
amounts received and deposited.



When the city receives a check, it will ﬁrst conﬁrm the amounts. Third party checks, illegible
checks, checks over 180 days old, and checks in a foreign currency will not be accepted. Should
any check be suspicious, the bank will be contacted to verify its authenticity. All business licenses
or building permits will have the permit/business number on the check. All deposits will be
recorded into ﬁnancial system software.



In compliance with Utah State Law, receipts will be collected daily and deposited at the bank every
three days. All tracking of cash deposits and receipts will be conducted by the City staff, in a multi-
stage system which distributes responsibility to multiple staff members to support separation of
duties, transparency, and accuracy.


Investment
Purpose:

Establish an effective delineation of responsibilities and internal controls for the safekeeping and
investment of the City of Holladay monies. Investments shall be made with the judgment and care,
which persons of prudence, discretion, and intelligence exercise in the management of their own
affairs, not for speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their capital as
well as the probable income to be derived.

Policies:

All funds will be invested in accordance with the most recent revision of the Utah Money
Management Act. The primary objectives of investment activities in order of priority shall be safety,
liquidity, and yield:



                                                                                            11 | P a g e
            •   Safety: Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the investment program.
                Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation
                of capital in the overall portfolio.
            •   Liquidity: The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid to meet all
                operating requirements that may be reasonably anticipated. This is accomplished
                by structuring the portfolio so that securities mature concurrent with cash needs to
                meet anticipated demands.
            •   Yield: Return on investment is of secondary importance compared to safety and
                liquidity objectives described above.


Credit Card Payment
Purpose:


The purpose of this policy is to deﬁne the guidelines for accepting and processing credit cards and
storing personal cardholder information. The policy will help ensure that cardholder information
supplied to the City of Holladay is secure and protected.


Policies:


This policy applies to all City of Holladay employees receipting credit card transactions. The policy
pertains to all departments that process, transmit, or handle cardholder information. The
cardholder information may be in a physical or electronic format. These policies ensure all credit
card information provided to the city is kept safe.


The City of Holladay will accept credit cards for a speciﬁed list of transactions, except those that
are prohibited by law. The City will not give cash advances on credit cards, nor will it accept partial
payments with credit cards. If a credit card is used, the amount due must be paid in full. Credit
cards can be used to pay off the amount of a returned check. Cards must be signed by the person
named on the face of the card. In the case of corporate/company cards, the City can accept
appropriate corporate identiﬁcation, such as a photo ID in the company name or similar
identiﬁcation for signees. Credit card payments will not be accepted over the phone or by mail due
to high cost and high risk. Certain credit cards may not be accepted depending on the platform.



Refund requests are submitted and reviewed individually by the City Finance Director to determine
refund eligibility. Partial or full refunds may be determined appropriate for room or facility rental
deposit returns, canceled permit applications, or over-payment. Valid refunds will be credited to
the credit card account used for the initial transaction.


All employees that process, transmit, or handle cardholder information are required to read the

                                                                                            12 | P a g e
policy and will adhere to its requirements. Department supervisors are responsible for providing
this policy to its card handling employees and providing training on the use of devices and security
of credit cards and related physical cardholder data.



If the City becomes aware that a customer's credit card number or card processing device has
been compromised, the City will notify individuals involved immediately. The City will contact the
City’s merchant bank, law enforcement and other involved associations as necessary to remediate
the loss of important information.


City Issued Credit Cards
Purpose:

This credit card policy outlines the proper use and management of city-issued credit cards to
ensure accountability, transparency, and compliance. It establishes guidelines for authorized
expenditures, approval processes, and documentation requirements to prevent misuse and
maintain ﬁnancial integrity.

Policies:

Employees must complete the Credit Card Acceptance Agreement, acknowledging they have read
and understand the City’s credit card policies and procedures. Cardholders are responsible for
securing their credit card, using it only for authorized business purchases, and maintaining proper
documentation, such as receipts, for all transactions. Unauthorized purchases or misuse of the
card may result in severe consequences, including termination of employment.



Approved purchases may include office supplies, vehicle maintenance supplies, and certain travel
expenditures, and prohibited purchases would include items like personal items, alcohol, gift
cards, and capital equipment. The Finance Director is responsible for issuing cards, reviewing
transactions for compliance, and handling payments and reconciliations. Cardholders must submit
receipts and warrant requests for each transaction by the end of the statement period, and any
disputes on transactions must be identiﬁed within 60 days.



Upon termination of employment, the cardholder’s supervisor must collect the credit card and
receipts and notify the Finance Director to close the account. In the case of a lost or stolen card,
the employee must immediately report it to the Finance Director. Misuse of the credit card or failure
to comply with the policy can result in personal liability for unauthorized charges and potential
disciplinary actions, including termination.




                                                                                         13 | P a g e
                                      City of Holladay
                                      CITY COUNCIL

       CITY OF HOLLADAY COUNCIL SUMMARY REPORT

MEETING DATE: March 27, 2025
SUBJECT: Paving Maintenance Program
SUBMITTED BY: Jared Bunch, P.E., Public Services Director


PROPOSED MILL AND OVERLAY STREETS UNDER COUNTY CONTRACT

The streets on the enclosed maps are proposed to be repaved by Salt Lake County under our
FY26 contract.
                                                                                                           OVERLAY
                                                                                                         HOLLADAY CITY
                                                                                                        WAYMAN LN AREA
                                                                  Bo                                          r
                   0       S                                         n   ai                                 Ci         Wren Rd
            4   85                  Vie                                    rS                          od
                                        w                                       t                  o
                                                 mo                                            W                                   Sommet Dr
                                                          nt                           o   w
                                                                   St                                              Milo Way




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Waimea W
                                                                                    ad
                   n




                                                                           Sh
                rL




                                                                                                                                                      Wander Ln
                                            M                                                                                   r d Ln
            bo




                                             ar                                                                          Stanfo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ay
                                                      ily
         Ar
                       Me




                                                                                                                                         y
                                                                                                                                   nt Wa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           gh
                                                            n
                                                                  Dr                                                      Sw aso
                          m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Hi
                                                                                                                                                                                                     r
                                                                                                                                                                                               ala D



                                                                                                                   r
                               or y




                                                                                                                   Ci
                                                                                                                                                                                           Koh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     le
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mi
                                                                                                                                 Casto Ln

                                                                                                                  sto
                                     Ln




                                                                                                             Ca




                                                                                                                                                                                                                y
                                                                                                                                                                   Alvera Dr




                                                                                                                                                                                                               SB F w
                                                                                                                       Verona Cir
                                                                            n
                                                                          dL
   2100 E




                                                                         w oo




                                                                                                                                 Cottonwood Elementary School




                                                                                                                                                                                                       I215E
                                                                                                                            5                  Juniper Way
                                                                       t on




                                                                                                                                                                                     Oak Park Ln Alvera C ir
                                                                   C ot




                                                                                                                                                                   Blue Spruce Cir
                        v




                                                                                                   Ha
                  dC




                                               534
                                                                                                        ve
   E




                                                          0S
                de




                                                                                                            n




                                                                                                                                     Hillsden Dr
 2110




                                                                                                                                                   North
                                                                                                                                                         wood
                                                                                                              Ln
            o




                                                                                                                                                              Rd
         Wo




                                                                                                                                                               Wa
                                                                                                                                                                  ym

         Walker Ln
                                                                                                                                                                 an
                                                Walker Woods Ln




                                                                                                                                                                                             ir
                                                                                                                                                                                           kC
                                                                                                                                                                    L

                                                                                                                                                                                   c
                                                                                                                                                                  n

                                                                                                                                                                                ro
                                     Cottonw ood Ln




                                                                                                                                                         5495 S              ge
                                                                                                                                                                       Ed



                                                                                                                                                     Heather Cir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Silve
                                                                                                                                                                 Coun
                                                                                                                                                                      ty             Rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H aw k



 Pheasant Ln
                                                                                                                                                                                       I215E NB Fwy




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Whitew
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dr




                                                                                    r
                                                                         Brentwood D Brentwood Dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ater Dr
                                                                                                                                               Holladay Blvd
                    Ln




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Wa
                ri
            ng




                                                                                                             Oakhill




                                                                                                                                                                                                Tolcate Woods Ln




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sa


                                                                                                                             596
            a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ln




                                                                                                                                     0S
         Sh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tch



                                    Fardown Ave
                                                                                                                                                                                                                at e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Blv
                                                                                                                  Dr
                Verness Cv 2180 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                              c
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tol




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d
                                    2230 E




                                                                         Field                                                                                 g Ln
                                                           2300 E




                                                                               R       os e D                                            c   rossin
                                                                                                        r                        C r eek
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Not Shown:
2090 E




                                                                                     Big Cottonwood Rd                                                                                                                  Lakewood Dr:
                                                                                                                                                                                            62
                                                        2275 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Woodcrest to
                                                                                                                                                                                                     00
                                                                                                                            2710 E




  Howey Dr                                                                                                                                                                                                      S       Highland Dr

                                                                                                        Public Works - Operations
                                                                                                         Pavement Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ±
