Planning Commission
Community Development
Department City of Holladay
801.527.3890

 FILE# 25-2-02                                                     "MCDONALD HISTORIC HOUSE" CUP
 ADDRESS:                                                            DECISION TYPE:
  4659 S. Highland Dr.                                               Administrative:

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION: 22-04-479-003                                    Public hearing required. PC shall make a motion of either,
  BEG W 165 FT & N 14^05' W 522.7 FT & N 89^ E 41.07 FT FR
                                                                     denial, approval or to continue. All motions require findings
  SW COR OF SE 1/4 OF SE 1/4 OF SEC 4, T 2S, R 1E, S L M; N          which support the decision. As directed by ordinance,
  14^ 05' W 110 FT; N 89^ E 86.5 FT; S 29^32'42" E 122 FT; S 89^
  W120 FT TO BEG. 0.25 AC, M OR L 4580-0879 7018-0771                applications shall be approved if the Land Use Authority
  7053-20647693-1213, 1215 07693-1217 10615-9398
                                                                     finds Substantial Evidence of compliance with applicable
                                                                     requirements. Holladay Ord. 13.06.050.B2 and 13.08
 APPLICANT/REPRESENTATIVE:
  John Branscomb                                                     SITE VICINITY MAP

 PROPERTY OWNER:
  JBJ Holladay LLC

 ZONING:
                                                                                                            4650

  R-M

 GENERAL PLAN DISTRICT:
  Highland Drive Master Plan Segment A
 CITY COUNCIL DISTRICT:
  District #5
 PUBLIC NOTICE DETAILS:
  Mailed 8/22/2025

 REQUEST:
  Conditional Use Permit

 APPLICABLE REGULATIONS:
  13.03.020 CONDITIONAL USE-
  SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
  13.08.040 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
  REVIEW/APPROVAL STANDARDS
  13.86 HISTORIC PRESERVATION
 EXHIBITS:                                                                                          City of Holladay
                                                                                               4659 South Highland Drive
                                                                                                   Historic Location
                                                                                                "David McDonald Home"      4675
  Zone map
  Staff Report                                                                                                   Feet




  Director Review Recommendation
  Applicant Narrative
                                                                     Notes:
  Applicant Supporting Documents (national
  historic register document and photos,
  architectural renderings)

 STAFF:
  Carrie Marsh, City Planner

                                                                                                                                  1
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning


                         PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
                                                September 2, 2025

ITEM # 1
Request: Conditional Use Permit – Historical Site Use and Modifications
Project: “McDonald Historic House” Historical Site Use and Modifications for J.Brooks Jewelers
Address: 4659 S. Highland Drive
Applicant: John Branscomb
File No.: 25-2-02
Notice: Mailed Notice on August 22, 2025
Staff: Carrie Marsh

GOVERNING ORDINANCES:
13.03.020                CONDITIONAL USE- SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
13.08.040                CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REVIEW/APPROVAL STANDARDS
13.86                    HISTORIC PRESERVATION


REQUIRED PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION: Administrative
Public hearing to be held. PC shall make a motion of either, denial, approval or to continue. All
motions require findings which support the decision. As directed by ordinance, applications
shall be approved if the Land Use Authority finds Substantial Evidence of compliance with
applicable approval standards and requirements. Holladay Ord. 13.08.040

SUMMARY
The City of Holladay Code §13.86 addresses Historic Preservation within the City. This section of
code designates sites and applies standards and additional uses specifically applicable to these
sites. A conditional use permit is required for any modifications relating to the site or structure.
Modifications are defined in §13.86.065 as:
        “Demolition or construction where a demolition or building permit is required. Modification also
        includes substantial changes to landscape, fencing, or appearance of a historic site. Modification
        does not include minor changes to landscape, fencing, or appearance of a historic site such as
        painting the historic site substantially the same color, changes to flowerbeds, or trimming.”

Upon receipt of the application, it was reviewed by the Technical Review Committee and
determined that the changes to the structure and site met the definition of modification within
§13.86.065, requiring review by the Planning Commission for a Conditional Use Permit.

As designated in §13.86.050: SITE MODIFICATION,
        “the Planning Commission may modify all yard, parking, landscaping, height, and other
        requirement of the zone in which the historic site is located, as necessary to fulfill the purposes of


“McDonald Historic House” Historical Site Modifications and Use for J. Brooks Jewelers
                                                                                                  Page 1 of 5
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning

        this chapter. In so doing, the nature and character of adjacent properties shall be considered to
        ensure that the health, safety, convenience, and general welfare will not be impaired. The
        Planning Commission may establish development criteria to control impacts associated with the
        heaviest permitted use in the base zone, including but not limited to: noise, glare, dust, or odor.”

Additionally, the applicant is seeking approval for use of the property as a small fine jewelry
retailer. Additional uses for historic sites are outlined in 13.86.060: ADDITIONAL USES FOR
HISTORIC SITES:
        A. Residential And Forestry Zones: The planning commission may approve any of the following
        uses for a historic site in addition to the permitted and conditional uses allowed in the forestry or
        residential zone in which the site is located:
            Antique shop.
            Art shop.
            Boarding house.
            Child nursery.
            Dental office or clinic.
            Dwelling, single-, two-, three-, four- or multiple-family (in addition to a maximum of sixteen
        (16) units per acre).
            Nursing home.
            Office.
            Private educational institution.
            Reception centers.
            Restaurant.
            Other uses of similar intensity to the above.



BACKGROUND
Holladay has a number of historical
properties and locations which are
designated within the City Code. With
recent changes to City Code, property
owners now have a process to add
their property to Holladay’s list of
designated historic sites. The
property owner has gone through the
process of having the David
McDonald Home added as a Historic
Site through the City Council and is
now seeking a conditional use permit
for a proposed use as a jewelry shop
in addition to making modifications
to the property.

“McDonald Historic House” Historical Site Modifications and Use for J. Brooks Jewelers
                                                                                                 Page 2 of 5
                                           City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning



A historical overview article by Realtor, Jacob Barlow, is included in the packet for review and
gives a broader understanding of the historical significance of the property.
The following points are a summary of the property’s history:

    •   The home was constructed in
        1890 by David and Arabella
        McDonald, who immigrated
        to Utah from Scotland and
        Northern Ireland in 1869.
    •   The house was constructed
        with brick and adobe that
        was manufactured on the site
    •   David was a blacksmith and
        eventually his blacksmith
        shop was located 50 yards
        from the home
    •   The house was used as a
        rental property in 1966 and
        was eventually renovated for
        use as an office for Kent S.      Image 1
        Topham in 1977.
    •   Fencing along a short wall
        and columns flanking a gate
        are seen in photos from 1984
        (Image 1)
    •   Hand crafted iron fence placed
        in 1912 is still present
    •   The front porch was added
        sometime between 1894
        (Image 1) and 1912 (Image 2)
    •   The rear porch on the east
        was noted as being
        previously enclosed, and the
        side porch was noted as a
        basement entrance that was
        enclosed prior to restoration
        and registry by Mr. Topham        Image 2
        1977



“McDonald Historic House” Historical Site Modifications and Use for J. Brooks Jewelers
                                                                                         Page 3 of 5
                                           City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning

    •   Added to the National Historic Register May 29, 1980 (#8003927)
    •   The property is identified as having historic importance withing the City in the General
        Plan’s Historic Preservation section of Chapter 2; Land Use, Urban Design, and
        Neighborhood Preservation (Page 12).
    •   The property is within Segment A of the Highland Drive Master Plan. Segment A “has a
        healthy mix of commercial and higher density residential uses” that should be maintained
        (Page 4). Within the “Commerce” section, the plan states that “measures that attract
        economic vitality while protecting core community values should be encouraged along all
        segments of Highland Drive as allowed in this document”, including “allow existing
        busineeses to upgrade building architecture, landscaping, and other site related factors to
        compliment the new vision of Highland Drive and to establish an ambience that is inviting
        for new businesses to locate within the existing commercial areas”

APPLICANT / PROPERTY SUMMARY
Applicant and owner, John Brooks, is seeking both use of the site as a jewelry shop which specializes in
custom-designed jewelry that is created in house, and architectural and site modifications as
summarized in the letter of intent. The applicant is seeking to make the following modifications:

Existing Building:
    1. Historically accurate architectural elements
    2. Stained glass, front door, hardwood floors, and transom windows restored with antique-inspired
        brass hardware, classic frames, crown moldings
    3. Replacement of windows within openings, with muntins/mullions (strips that divide glass
        panes). Arched brick lintels and exterior window trims are to remain.
    4. Windows and frames black in color with business name subtly added to upper windows in
        arched area
    5. Addition of extended porch with columns on the front of the structure. The porch extends to
        cover ADA ramp access.
    6. Removal of enclosed rear porch on east side and replacement with more contemporary style
        design
    7. Addition of a second level above enclosed rear porch consisting of paneled windows on all sides
        to function as a sunroom
    8. Removal of enclosed porch on north side and replacement with more contemporary style design
        to coordinate with rear addition.


Site Work:
    1. Repaving of parking lot and reworked parking areas to meet parking requirements
    2. Brick columns with lanterns and iron gate and fencing along front property line
    3. Relaying of stonework in the walkway and patio, with added ADA accessibility
    4. Refreshed landscaping and fencing; residential in nature
    5. Tree replacement in the front yard to account for one tree being removed



“McDonald Historic House” Historical Site Modifications and Use for J. Brooks Jewelers
                                                                                              Page 4 of 5
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning

TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTE ANALYSIS AND RECOMMENDATION
Technical Review Committee (TRC) finds that the application for a conditional use permit for both the
use of the building as a jewelry shop and modifications to the building and landscaping modification to a
site listed on the Holladay Historic Preservation to be complete.

The TRC recommends the PC to hold the required public hearing (as required in 13.08.040). Public
comments made should be considered as they relate to the set approval standards. Additional
considerations or conditions, if any, should be applied carefully and reasonably as per 13.08.040.F. The
Holladay TRC has provided their suggesting findings and conditions to consider. The CED Director has
provided a summary of the proposed modifications attached to this report with the recommendation to
moderate discussion around three noted items.

Suggested Findings:
     1. Modifications to the building and site are considered to be substantial as defined by
         13.86.050
     2. The proposed modifications, overall, do not detract from the historic nature of the building's
         architecture.
     3. The enclosed north and west porches, while not part of the original structure, have been in
         place for at least 47 years or longer
     4. The proposed contemporary rear addition adds usability to the home and its location on the
         rear of the home does not detract from the historic feel when viewed from the street.
     5. The proposed use is similar in nature and intensity to those included within Chapter 13.86.060
         “Additional Uses Allowed”
     6. The proposed use and modifications align with the Highland Drive Master Plan

Suggested Conditions of Approval:
     1. Front fencing no higher than 4 feet in the front yard and to meet clear view standards at
         driveways (15 feet parallel and perpendicular to sides of driveway)
     2. Parking to meet parking requirements for use
     3. Retention and reuse of original iron fence from 1912, as noted in the national historic register,
         on the property
     4. No improvements within 20 feet of the canal on the east side of the property
     5. Any additional conditions as discussed with the applicant during the meeting

SUGGESTED MOTIONS

“I motion the Holladay Planning Commission move to ___________ (APPROVE, DENY, CONTINUE) the
application for a Conditional Use Permit for a Historic Site Modification and for Use as a Jewelry Shop
for the “David McDonald House”, designated as a historic site by section 13.86.020 of the City of
Holladay code, located at 4659 S. Highland Dr. Based upon the findings that the application _________
(see above for staff suggested findings) and subject to the following conditions_____________ (see above for
staff suggested conditions, plus any additional conditions as determined by the Commission)”




“McDonald Historic House” Historical Site Modifications and Use for J. Brooks Jewelers
                                                                                                 Page 5 of 5
Community and Economic Development Department
Rob Dahle, Mayor
Gina Chamness, City Manager
LaNiece Davenport, Director
                                                                                                                                                      City of Holladay
                                                                                                                       Community and Economic Development Department
                                                                                                                             4580 South 2300 East, Holladay Utah 84117
                                                                                                                                                        (801)527-3890

August 28, 2025


Property Owner: -
Applicant: John Branscomb

RE:                HISTORIC MODIFI CATON PERMI T: REVI EW & RECOMMENDATION
                   PZ FILE: #25-2-02
                   Zone: RM, Residential, Multi-Family
                   Property Location: 4659 South Highland Drive
                   Land Use: CUP – Historic Property Modification Permit, “David McDonald Home”

In accordance with §13.06.020, §13.08.040 and §13.86 the Holladay Technical Review Committee (TRC) is requested to
review a pending land use application for a CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT – HISTORIC SITE MODIFICATION.
Please review the following recommendation from the CED, Director in preparation for submission to the Planning
Commission.

The David McDonald house is found to be significant example of early Utah architecture. The home can be considered in
the construction pattern of “Side Passage/Entry Hall” style, found from 1847 to 1920.

                   “The Side-passage home has a square or rectangular plan with and entrance passage inserted on one side
                   of the main floor, which gives a distinctive asymmetrical appearance. The side-passage house is one and
                   half to two stories and displays a remarkable longevity, being found in styles ranges from Greek Revival to
                   Prairie School style. ….The side-passage plan was found in both urban and rural areas of the country
                   during the 18th and 19th centuries.”1

LEVELS OF REVIEW

         1) §13.06.020; Determination of complete submittal
                    o Application initiated by John Branscomb for minor building and landscaping modifications to a site listed on
                        the Holladay Historic Preservation is found to be complete.
                    o Submittal includes: complete application, fees, existing and proposed elevations and landscaping plans and
                        business operations description (retail, jewelry)

         2) §13.08; Conditional Use, Recommendation to Planning Commission
                    o Upon review with the TRC, the CED Director has determined the submittal to be appropriate for
                       recommendation and notice for Planning Commission public hearing. Application to be considered for a CUP:
                       Historic Site Modification Permit and Land Use Permit (as per §13.86.030).

         3) §13.86; Historic Use, Modification Permit
                    o A conditional use permit is required for any modifications to a historic site or structure, including modifications
                         to the landscaping, fencing or appearance of any lot, or demolition, construction, alteration, relocation,
                         improvement or conversion of a historic site.
                    o A conditional use permit on a historic site shall be made in the manner and subject to the procedures and
                         requirements set forth in section 13.08.040. To the extent that the requirements of that section are inconsistent,
                         the requirements of chapter 13.86 prevail.
                    o CED, Director recommendation of proposed modifications;
                               Building Modifications
                                       • Rear second level addition is proposed to expand above the “salt box” storage area. The
                                           prosed materials are unknown but construction and window treatments are contemporary in
                                           styling and purely reflect the use of the space as a sun-room. The addition provides usability o
                                           the historic home, and as it is located in the rear, does not detract from the historic feel when
                                           view from the street.
                                                   1
                                                    Carter, Thomas Goss, Peter. Utah Architecture, 1847-1940, A Guide. Utah State Historical Society, 1998, pg 28
                              •   Exterior trim, window frames
                                       o Reviewing historical images. the cornice and parapet have been modified at least
                                           twice. The previous work has maintained the original feel of the face. Proposed
                                           elevations do not show much detail, however the tall frieze element, below the
                                           cornice, appears to be removed. This broad element separates the vertical brick wall
                                           from the cornice and is a dramatic element contributing to the historic look of this
                                           period.
                                       o Windows are generally a highlight of any historic property. Overtime, however, they
                                           quickly become an achilles heel when striving to maintain energy efficiency and
                                           usability of a space/building. Retrofitting windows is a make-or-break element to
                                           any restoration project. As per the proposed elevations, a complete replacement of all
                                           windows is envisioned. Chosen styles are found to be generally within keeping with
                                           the double hung operation of the original home. Mullions provide a period look to
                                           the panes while the glass likely provides modern UV efficiency. Overall, the window
                                           openings are maintained and do keep the arched, brick lintels.
                               • Entrance doors
                                       o Existing front entrance door is of wood framing and unlikely original, based on
                                           historical images. Proposed replacements are similar in style and compliment the
                                           home by providing notable “heaviness” which complements the mass the building,
                                           especially from the street.
                               • Entrance Covering
                                       o The grand front porch returns to the McDonald home. The earliest photo of the
                                           McDonald home (circa 1894) shows a proud David McDonald in the front yard. No
                                           front entry porch is shown here, but a later photo (cira 1912) shows an improvement
                                           to the façade. A wide entry porch and covering supported by simple tuscan style
                                           columns. This porch was scaled back as shown in more recent photos to a simple
                                           porch covering with similar columns. The proposed elevations depict a return of this
                                           original feature. The columns supporting the grand porch are shown to be larger than
                                           those that were originally found, which seem to slightly detract from the scale of the
                                           home.
                                       o Building ornamentation which intend to embellish the façade were not generally
                                           found om found on buildings in this style.
                         Fencing Modification
                                       o Recommend modification approvals as proposed in accordance with Holladay
                                           fencing height regulations.
                         Landscaping Modification
                                       o Currently, little to no landscaping is featured at this site. Overgrowth around the rear
                                           parking lot hinder access level Entrance trees. Proposed landscaping as shown in
                                           renderings, refreshing the landscaping to reflect that of a residence
                         Site Modifications
                               • Addition of an accessibility ramp is proposed. The construction of which looks to maintain
                                  the period feel of brick and capstone construction.
                               • Upper Canal abuts the east property line (rear of parking lot). No improvements are proposed
                                  with 20 foot protection buffer favoring canal integrity, nor shall any conditions be considered
                                  to provide improvement allowances
                         Parking Lot Modifications
                                       o No major concern with the modifications as proposed.

Prior to a motion, it is recommended that the Planning Commission moderate a discussion with the applicant on the
following elements
       1. Second level addition – appropriate styling
       2. Removal of the frieze from the upper cornice
       3. Scale of columns supporting the front porch
Sincerely,


Jonathan Teerlink
CED, DIrector



                                       1
                                        Carter, Thomas Goss, Peter. Utah Architecture, 1847-1940, A Guide. Utah State Historical Society, 1998, pg 28
                           NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
                             CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                         Historic Site Use and Modifications
 Date:                          Tuesday, September 2nd, 2025
 Time:                          As close to 6:00 pm as possible
 Location:                      City Hall – City Council Chambers
 Hearing Body:                  Planning Commission

Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
review and consider a proposal by John Branscomb for a Conditional Use
Permit seeking use as a jewelry retailer with associated building and site
modifications to the David McDonald Home, a designated historic site,
located at 4659 S. Highland Drive in the R-M zone. The proposal for use
and exterior modifications are to be reviewed in accordance with
provisions in Holladay City Code Section 13.86.
**No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with the/this application. **

Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm 09/01/2025 to Carrie Marsh,
cmarsh@holladayut.gov; City Planner. Emailed comments received by the
designated times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.

Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to view this
meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch
the video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay webpage.

ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on 08/22/2025 by order of the Community and Economic Development Director,
Jonathan Teerlink, to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your residence,
please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.




                            NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
                              CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                          Historic Site Use and Modifications
  Date:                           Tuesday, September 2nd, 2025
  Time:                           As close to 6:00 pm as possible
  Location:                       City Hall – City Council Chambers
  Hearing Body:                   Planning Commission

Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
review and consider a proposal by John Branscomb for a Conditional Use
Permit seeking use as a jewelry retailer with associated building and site
modifications to the David McDonald Home, a designated historic site,
located at 4659 S. Highland Drive in the R-M zone. The proposal for use
and exterior modifications are to be reviewed in accordance with
provisions in Holladay City Code Section 13.86.
**No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with the/this application. **

 Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm 09/01/2025 to Carrie Marsh,
 cmarsh@holladayut.gov; City Planner. Emailed comments received by the
 designated times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.

 Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to view this
 meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
 agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch
 the video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay webpage.

ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on 08/22/2025 by order of the Community and Economic Development Director,
Jonathan Teerlink, to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your residence,
please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.
                                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                                          &
                                                                                                                           Sa
                                David McDonald House 4659 S. Highland Drive




                                                                                                                              lt L
                      20 S
               E 46




                                                                                                                                ak
                                                                                                                                 eC
                                                                                                                                     ity
                                                                                                                                      Ca
                                                                                                                                       na
                                                  Children's Cottage




                                                                                                                                           l
             L M K Interior                              The                                                                                   E 4625 S
                Design                                                                    E 4 625 S
                              w Ct
                     ys Vie
              E Ke

                                                               Mendenhall                                                Holladay Pines
                                                              Architecture &                                                 Estates




                                                                                                                                                    Jo
                                                                 Design




                                                                                                                                                     rd
                                                                                                                                                       an
                     RumorSpa                                                                                                                             &
                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                  al
                                                                                                                                                                       tL
                                                                                                                                                                            ak
                                                                               Mediation Utah                                                                                    e
                                                                                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                                                         ity
                   Profiles Hair Studio                                  David McDonald




                                                                                                                                                                                               C
                                                                          Historic Home




                                                                                                                                                                                               an
                                                                                                                                                                                                   al
                                                                                        MS. Kathleen
                                                                                    Stillion-allen A.p.RN
                                                      High
                                                       land
                                                         Dr




                                                                        Canyon View Credit
                                                                             Union


                                                                                                   E 46 75 S

                                                                    Bjorn's Brew Coffee
Bi
g
 Di




                                     The Sport Loft
     tc h




                                                                                                             Spa Blu



                                                                Plan Certain
                                                                 Financial
                                                                                          Primo Restaurant


                                                Salon Melange
             Magnus Commercial
                 Properties




                  Cup O Sno                  Burt Brothers Tire &                    Wells Fargo
                                                   Service

            8/22/2025                                                                                                                  1:2,062
                                                                                                                0        0.01          0.03               0.05 mi

                     4659 S. Highland Drive                          R-2-10                                     0        0.02          0.04               0.08 km

        Holladay Zones                                               R-M
                     C-2                                             Parcel Boundaries                Sources: Esri, TomTom, Garmin, Safegraph, FAO, NOAA, USGS, (c)
                                                                                                      OpenStreetMap contributors, and the GIS User Community
                     P-O                                             City Boundary
                     R-1-10
                        COTTONWOOD GLEN




                                                                                              WE
                                                                                                L L IN
                                                                                                   GTO
                                                                                                       N
4620



                                                                      CRESTHILL


                  IEW
             SV
       KEY




                                                                      4650
                                         HIGH
                                              LAND




                                                                              4675




                                                                                  SYCAM ORE




                                      City of Holladay
                                 4659 South Highland Drive
                                     Historic Location
                                  "David McDonald Home"

                                                               Feet
                                     0   15   30     60   90   120
                                  4650
HIGH
 LAND




             City of Holladay
        4659 South Highland Drive
            Historic Location
         "David McDonald Home"                   4675

                                          Feet
            0   3.75   7.5   15    22.5    30
FHR-8-300   (11-78)



United States Department of the Interior
Heritage Conservation and Recreation Service

National Register of Historic Places
Inventory Nomination Form
See instructions in How to Complete National Register Forms
Type all entries complete applicable sections_______________

1. Name
historic                    David I McDonald SHbuse
and/or common

2. Location
street & number             4659 Highland Drive                                                                 not for publication

city, town                  Salt Lake City                      vicinity of       congressional district     02

state                       UT                  code   049             county     Salt Lake                              code 035

3. Classification
Category                Ownership                      Status                      Present Use
    district               public                      JC_ occupied                    agriculture                     museum
_JL building(s)         X private                          unoccupied              X commercial                        park
    structure               both                           work in progress            educational                     private residence
    site                Public Acquisition             Accessible                      entertainment                   religious
    object                  in process                  X yes: restricted              government                      scientific
                                 being considered        . yes: unrestricted            industrial                     transportation
                                                           no                           military                       oth^r:

4. Owner of Property
name             Kent S. Topham and Janet W. Topham
street & number              2645 Kentucky Ave

city, town            Salt Lake City                            vicinity of                          state        UT 84117
5. Location of Legal Description
courthouse, registry of deeds, etc.            Recorder's Office,             Salt Lake County

street & number

city, town            SLC                                                                            state        UT

6. Representation in Existing Surveys
title Utah Historic Sites Survey                                   has this property been determined elegible?               yes    X no

date         August 1978                                                                federal         state          county           local

depository for survey records             Utah State Historical Society

city, town            SLC                                                                            state   UT
Condition                          Check one       Check one
 ^excellent         deteriorated       unaltered   __U/original site
                    ruins          _JL/altered         moved       date
    fair            unexposed

Describe the present and original (if known) physical appearance
     The McDonald House is a two-story structure, constructed of brick and
adobe manufactured on the property at a site just south of the house. The
house originally consisted of eight rooms - a kitchen, dining room, living
room, library, and four bedrooms. Although disguised by the projecting
section on the right of the facade, the plan of the house is basically
symmetrical. The only decorative details are the raised segmental arches over
the front windows, which are continued on the sides in an austere imitation of
stone drip moldings. A privy was located behind the house to the east. The
brick is of a rich oatmeal color.
    The following changes have been made in the interior. Complete
electrification, forced air heating, relocation of a stairway, certain
interior walls removed to facilitate use as office space. A previously
covered fireplace was returned to use, with new firebrick and damper added.
Casings of fir, which had deteriorated beyond repair were replaced with
casings of matching scale.
    On the exterior a porch was added sometime between 1894 and 1912. Badly
deteriorated by 1977, it was then partially rebuilt. An already existing
enclosed back porch was reconstructed and finished with wood planking. An
enclosed entrance to the basement on the north side was added to open up that
space for commercial use. The hand-made adobe and surface brick were
chemically cleaned in the fall of 1977 and the appearance of the house
documents the advantages of this process over sandblasting. All exterior
window frames were maintained intact, and repairs were made to soffit and
fascia. The roof was covered in cedar shingles. A flat section of roof was
replaced because of leakage with a low gable sometime after 1912. An iron
fence, originally made for the Troy laundry in Salt Lake City but part of the
McDonald home since 1912, was carefully rebuilt, reinstalled, and painted.
All doors are original to this structure. The house stands on an important
suburban traffic route and demonstrates the beneficial effects of careful
adaptive restoration.
8. Significance
Period           Areas of Significance Check and justify below
__ prehistoric       archeology-prehistoric      community planning       landscape architecture.     religion
__1400-1499          archeology-historic         conservation             law                         science
__1500-1599             riculture              . economics              . literature                  sculpture
__1600-1699        Vari
                      irchitecture             . education              . military                    social/
     1700-1799       art                         engineering            music                         humanitarian
    '1800-1899       commerce               _V^exploration/settlement   . philosophy                .theater
    1900-            communications         __ industry                 . politics/government       . transportation
                                            __ invention                                              other (specify)

Specific dates                              Builder/Architect David McDonald

Statement of Significance (in one paragraph)

    The significance of the McDonald House lies in typifying the values of a
middle-class newly emerged from the struggles to establish themselves in
pioneer society. The simple dignity of the McDonald House suggests
the residence of a hard working, upwardly mobile, skilled tradesman. The very
plain house has few stylistically distinguishing details, and the central hall
plan is a vestige of earlier venacular house types. located away from the
center of Salt Lake City, it documents the scattered pattern of settlement in
the outlaying areas of the Salt Lake Valley. Although the Mormon Church
dominated settlement patterns in Utah, the opening of a federal land office in
1869 brought the scattered homestead pattern bo the state. The McDonald House
exists today in the midst of later twentieth century development, an important
remnant of early domestic architecture outside the immediate Salt Lake City
area. The house has been carefully restored.
    The architect-builders were the owners, David and Arabella McDonald, who
lived in the building until their death in 1924. Both were immigrants to Utah
in 1869, he from Scotland and she from Northern Ireland, and both were 41 when
the home that was the measure of their success in America was constructed.
    David McDonald had been educated in Scotland, and served five years of
apprenticeship as a blacksmith and millwric#it. It was not until he was
settled in Utah that he met his wife Arabella Anderson, whom he married in the
Salt Lake Endowment House in 1874. David and Arabella remained supportive of
the Mormon Church and its various programs, although his ambivalence about the
Church was cause for comment. His membership in the largely Gentile Liberal
party, and the broad and catholic selection of titles in his much-loved
library suggest his distance from the mainstream of Mormon thought and
practice. The McDonald blacksmith ing business, located eventually only 50
feet from the McDonald home, prospered over the years. His increasing stature
in the business comnunity led to McDonald's increasing involvement in
politics. With the introduction of national political parties into Utah, he
quickly became established as an active Republican.
    At the death of both parents in 1924, the home passed into the hands of
other members of the family and eventually was converted into a rental
property in 1966. The home is now the headquarters of a professional design
firm.
9, Major Bibliographical References_________
 Interview, Arthur Wagstaff, Salt Lake City
 McDoanld-wagstaff Geneological Book (Arthur J. Wagstaff, 1894 East 4625 South, SLC)


 10. Geographical Data
Acreage of nominated property                        less than 1
                                                                                                                                                             1:24000

                                                                                           B
                 I4l2i9l0i9i0l               |4|5|oi2lli9iOl                                                                                         I   I    I
     Zone         Easting                     Northing                                          Zone           Easting                   Northing

Cl      I    I   I   I   I   I   I   I I     I   I    I   I   I    I   ,   I               D__             U_____L                       I   !   I   .
El      ,    I   I   I   i   I   i   i   I   I -i     I   I   I'   i   .   I               Fl     .    I   I     I   I   I   i   l   I   I   .   I   ,   I    ,   .   I

Gi      ,    I   Mi              I   i                             I   I                   H|     ,    I   I     I   I   I   .   .   I   I   i   I   .   I    i   .   I

Verbal boundary description and justification
 See continuation sheet

List all states and counties for properties overlapping state or county boundaries
state                                                          code                county                                                        code

state                                                          code                county                                                        code

11. Form Prepared By
name/title           John S.H. Smith/Preservation Historian

organization             Utah State Historical Society

street & number 307 West 200 South                                                                     telephone (801) 533-6017

city or town                                                                                           state UT 84101

12. State Historic Preservation Officer Certification
The evaluated significance of this property within the state is:
                             national                         state
                                                                               X   local
As the designated State Historic Preservation Officer for the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (Public Law 89-
665), I hereby nominate this property for inclusion in the National Register and certify that it has been evaluated
according to the criteria and procedures set forth by the Heritage Conservation and Recreation Service.




title       Melvin T. Smith, State Historic Preservation Officer                                                             date "7-            C -




                                                                                                                                                                  GPO 938 835
FHR-8-300A
(11/78)
       UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
     HERITAGE CONSERVATION AND RECREATION SERVICE

NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES
   INVENTORY -- NOMINATION FORM


    CONTI NUATION SHEET                   ITEM NUMBER        PAGE


         into a rental property in 1966.            The home is now the headquarters of
         a professional design firm.
FHR-8-300A
(11/78)
       UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
     HERITAGE CONSERVATION AND RECREATION SERVICE

NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES
   INVENTORY - NOMINATION FORM


    CONTI NUATION SHEET                   ITEM NUMBER   ]fj   PAGE   1


    Beginning at a point which is West 165 feet and North 14°05' West 522.7 feet
    and North 89° East 41.07 feet from the Southwest Corner of the Southeast Quarter
    of the Southeast Quarter of Section 4, Township 2 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake
    Base and Meridian, said point of beginning also being North 89° East 7.19
    feet from the Northwest Corner of Lot 2, Holladay Acres; thence North 14°05 f
    West 110 feet along that certain strip of land deeded to Salt Lake County for
    road widening purposes by Warranty Deed recorded May 13, 1976 as Entry No.
    2813974 in Book 4197 at page 454; thence North 89° East 86.5 feet to the center
    of an existing ditch; thence South 29°32'42" East along the center of said ditch 122.0
    feet to the North line of said Lot 2, Holladay Acres; thence South 89° West 120.0 feet
    along said North line to the point of beginning.
FHR-8-300A
(11/78)
       UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
     HERITAGE CONSERVATION AND RECREATION SERVICE

NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES
   INVENTORY -- NOMINATION FORM
    David McDonald House, Salt Lake County, Salt Lake City, Ut

    CONTI NUATION SHEET                   ITEM NUMBER       PAGE


          Although a preliminary survey of Salt Lake County has not been completed,
    the Holladay area of Salt Lake County, shown on the attached USGS map, has
    been reviewed for the preparation of this nomination.
          Only four other houses of the approximate period 1850-1900 remain in the
    Holladay area: the David Brinton house (National Register); the Templeman
    house at 45th South and Highland Drive; and two small houses on Wander Lane.
DAVID MCDONALD HOUSE,
4659 Highland Drive, Salt Lake
 City, Salt Lake County, Utah
Taken by J.S.H.Smith, August 1978
Negative at Ut.St.Hist.Society
View of west front looking from
j. "A 1 1 >
* v:
              v*""
        i
 DAVMMcDONALD HOUSE
 4659 Highland Drive, Salt Lake
   City, Salt Lake County, Utah
 Taken by J.S.H.Smith, August 1978
 Negative filed at Ut.St.Hist.Soc.
 View of southeast corner looking
'jijfromcsoutheast to northwest.
             OCT241978
David McDonald House        3 of 5
4659 Highland Drive
Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County, UT

Photograph taken July 1977
On file at Kent Topham Associates
4659 Highland Drive
Salt Lake City
                           MAY 2 9 i98G
                             4 of 5
David McDonald House
4659 Highland Drive
Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County, UT

Photograph taken ca.:1894
On file at Kent Topham Associates
4659 Highland Drive
Salt Lake City
                          MAY 2 9 ;
                              5 of 5
David McDonald House
4659 Highland Drive
Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County, UT

Photograph taken ca.: 1912
On file at Kent Topham Associates
4659 Highland Drive
 Salt Lake City
8/27/25, 9:13 PM                                                David McDonald House | JacobBarlow.com




      ABOUT JACOBBARLOW.COM              CEMETERIES IN UTAH           D.U.P. MARKERS        DOORS


      EXPLORING UTAH EMAIL LIST            GEOCACHING           HISTORIC MARKER MAP          LINKS


      MOVIE/TV SHOW FILMING LOCATIONS                OLDEST IN UTAH         OTHER TRAVELS         PHOTOS THEN AND NOW


      S.U.P. MARKERS         U.P.T.L.A. MARKERS         UTAH CITIES AND PLACES.          UTAH HOMES FOR SALE


      UTAH TREASURE HUNT




    JacobBarlow.com ~ Exploring with Jacob Barlow                                                         Search…
                                                                                                          Go




        06 Tuesday Jun
                2023                 David McDonald House
                                     Posted by Jacob Barlow in Uncategorized                                   ≈ 2 Comments




                         Tags
             Historic Homes,
        Holladay, NRHP, Salt
           Lake County, utah




https://jacobbarlow.com/2023/06/06/david-mcdonald-house-2/#comments                                                           1/14
8/27/25, 9:13 PM                                                David McDonald House | JacobBarlow.com




                                     David McDonald House


                                     The significance of the McDonald House lies in typifying the values of a
                                     middle-class newly emerged from the struggles to establish themselves in
                                     pioneer society. The simple dignity of the McDonald House suggests the
                                     residence of a hard working, upwardly mobile, skilled tradesman. The very
                                     plain house has few stylistically distinguishing details, and the central hall plan
                                     is a vestige of earlier vernacular house types. located away from the center of
                                     Salt Lake City, it documents the scattered pattern of settlement in the
                                     outlaying areas of the Salt Lake Valley. Although the Mormon Church
                                     dominated settlement patterns in Utah, the opening of a federal land office in
                                     1869 brought the scattered homestead pattern to the state. The McDonald
                                     House exists today in the midst of later twentieth century development, an
                                     important remnant of early domestic architecture outside the immediate Salt
                                     Lake City area. The house has been carefully restored.




https://jacobbarlow.com/2023/06/06/david-mcdonald-house-2/#comments                                                        2/14
8/27/25, 9:13 PM                                                David McDonald House | JacobBarlow.com



                                                 David McDonald House




                                     The David McDonald House is located at 4659 South Highland Drive in
                                     Holladay, Utah and was added to the National Historic Register (#80003927)
                                     on May 29, 1980. The text on this page is from the National Register
                                     nomination form unless otherwise noted.


                                     The architect-builders were the owners, David and Arabella McDonald, who
                                     lived in the building until their death in 1924. Both were immigrants to Utah in
                                     1869, he from Scotland and she from Northern Ireland, and both were 41
                                     when the home that was the measure of their success in America was
                                     constructed.


                                     David McDonald had been educated in Scotland, and served five years of
                                     apprenticeship as a blacksmith and millwright. It was not until he was settled
                                     in Utah that he met his wife Arabella Anderson, whom he married in the Salt
                                     Lake Endowment House in 1874. David and Arabella remained supportive of
                                     the Mormon Church and its various programs, although his ambivalence about
                                     the Church was cause for comment. His membership in the largely Gentile
                                     Liberal party, and the broad and catholic selection of titles in his much-loved
                                     library suggest his distance from the mainstream of Mormon thought and
                                     practice. The McDonald blacksmithing business, located eventually only 50
                                     feet from the McDonald home, prospered over the years. His increasing
                                     stature in the business community led to McDonald’s increasing involvement in
                                     politics. With the introduction of national political parties into Utah, he quickly
                                     became established as an active Republican.




https://jacobbarlow.com/2023/06/06/david-mcdonald-house-2/#comments                                                        3/14
8/27/25, 9:13 PM                                                David McDonald House | JacobBarlow.com

                                     At the death of both parents in 1924, the home passed into the hands of other
                                     members of the family and eventually was converted into a rental property in
                                     1966. The home is now the headquarters of a professional design firm.


                                     The plaque on the building says:
                                     The two-story Victorian house was constructed in 1890 or brick and adobe
                                     manufactured on the site. It was built by David and Arabella McDonald,
                                     immigrants to Utah from Scotland and Northern Ireland in 1869. In 1977 the
                                     house was renovated for use as office for Kent S. Topham.




https://jacobbarlow.com/2023/06/06/david-mcdonald-house-2/#comments                                                  4/14
8/27/25, 9:13 PM                                                David McDonald House | JacobBarlow.com




https://jacobbarlow.com/2023/06/06/david-mcdonald-house-2/#comments                                      5/14
8/27/25, 9:13 PM                                                David McDonald House | JacobBarlow.com




https://jacobbarlow.com/2023/06/06/david-mcdonald-house-2/#comments                                      6/14
8/27/25, 9:13 PM                                                David McDonald House | JacobBarlow.com




https://jacobbarlow.com/2023/06/06/david-mcdonald-house-2/#comments                                      7/14
8/27/25, 9:13 PM                                                David McDonald House | JacobBarlow.com




https://jacobbarlow.com/2023/06/06/david-mcdonald-house-2/#comments                                      8/14
8/27/25, 9:13 PM                                                David McDonald House | JacobBarlow.com




https://jacobbarlow.com/2023/06/06/david-mcdonald-house-2/#comments                                      9/14
8/27/25, 9:13 PM                                                David McDonald House | JacobBarlow.com




                                                                        (from county records)




                                       ← Previous post                                                   Next post →




                        2
                                     T H O U G H T S O N “ D AV I D M C D O N A L D H O U S E ”




                                     Pingback: Holladay, Utah | JacobBarlow.com



                                     Pingback: Holladay by Address | JacobBarlow.com




                                     L E AV E A R E P L Y




    This site uses Akismet to
    reduce spam. Learn how
    your comment data is
                                       Write a comment...
    processed.




                                                                                                         Comment




https://jacobbarlow.com/2023/06/06/david-mcdonald-house-2/#comments                                                    10/14
J. BROOKS JEWELRY RETAIL TI
4659 HIGHLAND DRIVE
HOLLADAY, UTAH

14 AUG., 2025
                                                                                 EXISTING - SOUTH EAST VIEW




                                                                                 EXISTING - NORTH EAST VIEW




                                                                                                                                              EXISTING - WEST VIEW




                                                                                 EXISTING - NORTH WEST VIEW

                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING PHOTOS

                                                                                                              J. BROOKS JEWELRY RETAIL TI
                                                                                                                        4659 HIGHLAND DRIVE
The designs shown and described herein including all technical drawings, graphic representation & models
thereof, are the copyrighted work of Think Architecture, Inc. and & cannot be copied, duplicated, or
commercially exploited in whole or in part without the sole and express written permission from THINK
                                                                                                                          HOLLADAY, UTAH                             D200
Architecture, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                        14 AUG., 2025
                                                                          ROOF BEARING                                                                         ROOF BEARING
                                                                          21'-6"                                                                                       21'-6"




                                                                          LEVEL UPPER                                                                            LEVEL UPPER
                                                                          10'-11 1/4"                                                                              10'-11 1/4"




                                                                          LEVEL GROUND                                                                        LEVEL GROUND
                                                                          0"                                                                                             0"




                                                                                                                                           WEST ELEVATION SD OP. 2                              1
                                                                                                                                           1/4" = 1'-0"                                        D201




                                                                            ROOF BEARING                                                                      ROOF BEARING
                                                                            21'-6"                                                                                    21'-6"




                                                                            LEVEL UPPER                                                                          LEVEL UPPER
                                                                            10'-11 1/4"                                                                            10'-11 1/4"




                                                                          LEVEL GROUND                                                                        LEVEL GROUND
                                                                          0"                                                                                             0"




                                                                                                                                           SOUTH ELEVATION SD OP. 2                             2
                                                                                                                                           1/4" = 1'-0"                                        D201



                                                                                                                                                                                 EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                           J. BROOKS JEWELRY RETAIL TI
                                                                                                                     4659 HIGHLAND DRIVE
The designs shown and described herein including all technical drawings, graphic representation & models
thereof, are the copyrighted work of Think Architecture, Inc. and & cannot be copied, duplicated, or
commercially exploited in whole or in part without the sole and express written permission from THINK
                                                                                                                       HOLLADAY, UTAH                                               D201
Architecture, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                       14 AUG., 2025
                                                                                                      ROOF BEARING                                                    ROOF BEARING
                                                                                                      21'-6"                                                                  21'-6"




                                                                                                      LEVEL UPPER                                                       LEVEL UPPER
                                                                                                      10'-11 1/4"                                                         10'-11 1/4"




                                                                                                      LEVEL GROUND                                                    LEVEL GROUND
                                                                                                      0"                                                                         0"




                                                                                                                                                     EAST ELEVATION SD OP. 2                             1
                                                                                                                                                     1/4" = 1'-0"                                       D202




                                                                                                      ROOF BEARING                                                    ROOF BEARING
                                                                                                      21'-6"                                                                  21'-6"




                                                                                                      LEVEL UPPER                                                        LEVEL UPPER
                                                                                                      10'-11 1/4"                                                          10'-11 1/4"




                                                                                                      LEVEL GROUND                                                    LEVEL GROUND
                                                                                                      0"                                                                         0"




                                                                                                                                                     NORTH ELEVATION SD OP. 2                            2
                                                                                                                                                     1/4" = 1'-0"                                       D202


                                                                                                                                                                                         EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                                     J. BROOKS JEWELRY RETAIL TI
                                                                                                                               4659 HIGHLAND DRIVE
The designs shown and described herein including all technical drawings, graphic representation & models
thereof, are the copyrighted work of Think Architecture, Inc. and & cannot be copied, duplicated, or
commercially exploited in whole or in part without the sole and express written permission from THINK
                                                                                                                                 HOLLADAY, UTAH                                             D202
Architecture, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                               14 AUG., 2025
                                                                                                                   WEST VIEW


                                                                                                                                             EXTERIOR VIEWS

                                                                                                           J. BROOKS JEWELRY RETAIL TI
                                                                                                                       4659 HIGHLAND DRIVE
The designs shown and described herein including all technical drawings, graphic representation & models
thereof, are the copyrighted work of Think Architecture, Inc. and & cannot be copied, duplicated, or
commercially exploited in whole or in part without the sole and express written permission from THINK
                                                                                                                         HOLLADAY, UTAH      D203
Architecture, Inc.
                                                                                                                                              14 AUG., 2025
                                                                                                           SOUTH EAST VIEW                                   SOUTH WEST VIEW




                                                                                                           NORTH EAST VIEW                                   NORTH WEST VIEW

                                                                                                                                                                               EXTERIOR VIEWS

                                                                                                                             J. BROOKS JEWELRY RETAIL TI
                                                                                                                                       4659 HIGHLAND DRIVE
The designs shown and described herein including all technical drawings, graphic representation & models
thereof, are the copyrighted work of Think Architecture, Inc. and & cannot be copied, duplicated, or
commercially exploited in whole or in part without the sole and express written permission from THINK
                                                                                                                                         HOLLADAY, UTAH                        D204
Architecture, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                14 AUG., 2025
Carrie Marsh

From:                         Mark Goodfellow
Sent:                         Thursday, August 28, 2025 11:50 AM
To:                           Carrie Marsh
Subject:                      Fwd: Additional info for Holladay City for the JBJ Renovation Project
Attachments:                  past and current photo.jpg; Rear Strorage 2.jpg; Rear Storage 1.jpg; Google Map View
                              Trees at N property line.jpg; Google Map Front View of grounds.PNG; Google Map View
                              Tree at SE corner of building.PNG; Google Map View Trees at SE Property line.PNG



[External Email - Use Caution]

Hello Carrie,
I made a list of the Items you requested additional information on renovation at the building at
4659 Highland Drive for the J Brooks Jewelers folks and added the details I have at this time. See below:

1) The porch: The current wooden porch is accessed via a flight of three wooden steps and provides no
easy ADA access. The current porch covering is a narrow shed style roof with no handrails. Attached
below is a comparison photo (past and current photo) showing both the present and the past
appearance of the building and more specifically the current design of the front porch. Page D200 of the
architectural design package also displays a current view of the porch. We hope to extend the front
porch and handrails and roof to reach both edges of the front of the building and provide a ramp up to the
porch on the South side of the building. These proposed modifications are clearly shown on page D203 of
the architectural design package. We believe these modifications are faithful to the original style and
charm of the building while meeting the important goal of providing access as required by ADA guidelines
for retail and public spaces.

2) New Windows: The current windows are a mix of fixed single pane, some transom style, a thickened
glass window in what was once a drive-thru extension, and two stained glass transom windows. The
owners purchased the building to make it the new principal home for J Brooks Jewelers and because of
the nature of that business need reinforced glass in all the main floor windows for protection. The new
owners will restore and incorporate the two stained glass windows in the new design, but need also to
increase the energy efficiency of both the upper story and main story windows in the building. We do not
anticipate having to replace/change/modify the exterior window trims, and expect to purchase new
custom window units which will be installed from the inside against the existing exterior trims and
molding. Again, the windows selected will be faithful to the original style of the building, as shown in the
proposed design package.

3) Currently a single story shed style room is attached to the rear of the building that we propose
demolishing and replacing with a new structure intended to house a vault and a jewelry repair/storage
space. The room was added onto the building at a date well past the date the building was originally built
and historical information suggests it was used as a summer sleeping room defined by half walls and
screens with a roof above. One old photo appears to show it had an upper semi-enclosed space, but
most recently the space has been used as a shed roof storage room with double exterior
doors. Attached to this email are 2 photos (Rear photo 1 and Rear photo 2) showing the current look of
this room. When it was built many years ago, it was constructed on a 4-5" thick concrete slab, with no
footings or thickening or steel reinforcement of any kind. Presently the slab slopes away from the
                                                       1
building significantly and there is a chain from the outside brick wall of the building stretching to the back
wall of this room holding it in place so it doesn't slide off any further. We have consulted with a structural
engineer and his strong recommendation is to tear the room off the building, remove the slab that is
there now, and start fresh with an appropriate foundation and a new structure. The proposed new
structure is depicted on page D204 of the architectural design package. We believe the contemporary
look of the new design for this small space provides a beautiful contrast to the original look of the
building which will underscore the original look and charm the building has while dramatically improving
the look of its present rear appearance.

4) Trees and landscaping: Currently, there are large trees standing on the property along the South edge
of the subject property as well as one large tree on the North property line and one small tree standing at
the South East corner of the building (see attached google map photos). We don't anticipate having to
remove or replace any of the large trees located along property lines as the building's footprint won't be
altered and none of those trees will be impacted by the renovation. The smaller tree lo cated at the South
East corner of the building will need to be removed if approval is given for the front porch modifications
the owners have asked for. A suitable replacement tree will be planted in the front yard area to meet the
ordinance requirements. A proposed landscaping design is shown in the architectural design package
which includes numerous added shrubs and paver walkways with gate framed with masonry pillars. The
new design will be a dramatic improvement over the present condition of the property and provide a
beautiful addition to the streetscape along Highland Drive. .

5) Parking lot changes: The current parking area and driveways are asphalt and have not been well
maintained over the years, and are cracked and potholed and uneven to say the least. Railroad ties and
landscaping lumber is currently providing curbing for the parking lot. The owners want to re-pave the
parking area and driveways to provide a safe maintainable surface as well as re-stripe it to provide safe
defined parking spaces for their customers as they come to shop. The owner's also want to create as
many parking spaces as possible while fully complying with ordinance requirements.

Will you review and let me know if this will suffice for tonight’s meeting? If not please point me toward
any deficiency that needs correcting.
Thank you,

--
Mark Goodfellow
Goodfellow & Sons




                                                      2
                                             City of Holladay
                                  Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning


                          PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
                                                 September 2, 2025

ITEM # 2, 3, and 4
Request: Residential Subdivision as a Planned Unit Development
*To be reviewed as three separate actions- separate hearings and motions for each
Project: “Amare Vita”
Address: 6114, 6178, 6190 S Holladay Blvd. (R-1-43 zone) and 2715 E. 6200 S. (R-1-87 zone)
Applicant: J.U.B Engineering, representing property owner Doma Terra Holdings LLC
File No.: 25-1-08
Notice: Mailed Notice on August 11th and August 15th
Staff: Carrie Marsh, Senior Planner

GOVERNING ORDINANCES:
13.06            DEVELOPMENT REVIEW & APPROVAL PROCEDURES - ADMINISTRATIVE
13.08            ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT REVIEW STANDARDS
13.10A           SUBDIVSIONS
13.10A.070       PRELIMINARY AND FINAL SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCESS
13.10A.080       PRELIMINARY AND FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION CONTENTS
13.78            PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT

REQUIRED PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION: Administrative
Public hearing to be held. As this application is for a mixed-use site plan and a Planned Unit
Development, the PC shall make two separate motions, one for each item, to either, approve or to
continue discussion for this application. All motions require findings which support the decision. As
directed by ordinance, applications shall be approved if the Land Use Authority finds Substantial
Evidence of compliance with applicable requirements. Holladay Ord. 13.06.050.B2 and 13.08

    1. A conceptual subdivision site plan will be reviewed for compliance with the R-1-43 and R-1-87
       zones and establish the allowed density, or maximum number of dwelling units. Decisions must
       be made during public meeting. (See page 6 for TRC Review and motion)

    2. A Planned Unit Development (PUD) is a conditional use-controlled subdivision plat and requires
       a site plan review and approval by the Land Use Authority (Planning Commission). Decisions and
       approval must be made during public meeting. (See page 8 for TRC Review and motion)

    3. Creation of a subdivision plat requires review and approval of the preliminary plat by the Land
       Use Authority (Planning Commission), as detailed in 13.10A.070.D. Decisions must be made
       during public meeting. (See page 15 for TRC Review and motion)




“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                              Page 1 of 16
                                           City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning

SUMMARY
Applicant, J.U.B Engineering, representing the property owner, has been working with the TRC for a
subdivision as a Planned Unit Development. The property consists of four existing parcels, three in the
R-1-43 zone and one in the R-1-87 zone (see Zone Map Determination Aug.2025). Two of the parcels
currently contain a dwelling unit on each of them. Two other parcels do not have existing dwelling units
on them. The property owner is seeking to create a Planned Unit Development of nine total dwelling
units.

The project area is dissected by Big Cottonwood Creek, which limits the buildable area on both sides.
While City codes require a 50-foot protection area around Big Cottonwood Creek on developed parcels,
the PUD is proposing an additional 50 feet of protection (100 feet total) across the two developed
parcels with existing homes, creating a consistent 100-foot undisturbed area along both sides of Big
Cottonwood Creek. Most of the designated open space to be preserved for the PUD is concentrated
along the creek and the west side of the creek.

Outside of the creek protection area, the two developed parcels on the east side of the creek are where
the majority of trees are located. As the 100 feet of protection outside of the creek significantly limits
the available buildable area, trees would need to be removed to accommodate newbuldiable pads,
amenities, and roads. Any tree canopy proposed for removal would be required to be replaced with an
equivalent canopy at maturity.

OUTLINE OF PROCEDURE
The process for a PUD involves three steps. This staff report will provide information that is relevant to
the entire project. A separate TRC review and motion will be included on individual pages for each of the
three steps detailed below. Each step will have a separate public hearing.

        STEP 1: Concept subdivision review to establish allowed number of units based on meeting
        minimum zone requirements

        STEP 2: Conditional Use Permit (CUP) review to establish the conditions associated with
        modifications to a standard subdivision for a Planned Unit Development (PUD)

        STEP 3: Preliminary subdivision review to establish and create a plat that incorporates the
        modifications made to the conceptual standard subdivision by the PUD

This project is anticipated to be reviewed over the course of two meetings on August 19th and
September 2nd. No decisions will be made during the August 19th meeting.
        August 19th
        • Review of the entire project. Open public hearing for step 1: Concept Subdivision. Hearing to
             be continued to September 2nd meeting.

        September 2nd
        • Concept subdivision review and public hearing
        • Conditional Use Permit for PUD element review and public hearing

“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                              Page 2 of 16
                                             City of Holladay
                                  Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning

        •    Preliminary Subdivision Plat review and public hearing

BACKGROUND
This area of Holladay, known as the estates area, is characterized by larger properties, with significant
mature tree canopy coverage and are usually accessed through 20’ private lanes. Big Cottonwood Creek
runs through the area with protected areas contributing to a significant amount of the mature tree
canopy in the area. The estates area is highly valued and regularly recognized as a defining characteristic
of Holladay. When Holladay incorporated in 1999, zoning with larger minimum lot sizes was put in place
through the area, recognizing the historical land patterns and limited access. Singular owners of larger
properties have been able to subdivide those properties over time, but the minimum lot sizes of 1 and 2
acres with a set percentage of maximum lot coverage have largely preserved the character and historical
land use when properties in these zones are subdivided.

PUDs are a conditional use that require a minimum area of land to qualify. At 11.42 acres, the project
meets the higher required minimum in the R-1-87 zone of six acres and the 3 acres minimum in the R-1-
43 zone.

The proposed Planned Unit Development (PUD) involves four existing parcels totaling 11.42 acres (497,
455 square feet) that span the two zones. Maximum density allowances for a standard subdivision are
one unit for each 2 acres in the R-1-87 zone and one unit for each 1 acre in the R-1-43 zone.

Density is calculated based on the net area, after required fire access is removed. In the conceptual
standard subdivision proposed by the applicant, the net land area results in nine parcels.

Two parcels on the west side of Big Cottonwood Creek are both at least 2 acres, with the larger parcel
having enough extra land (.17 acres) to accommodate a fire access road up to 370 long at 20 feet wide.
Both parcels meet minimum zone requirements for width and frontage on 6200 South.

Parcels on the east side of the property would be accessed on Murray Holladay Road. Due to Big
Cottonwood Creek protection areas, the minimum required lot widths for each lot are proposed by the
applicant to be best addressed via the PUD provisions for flexible lot dimensions to accommodate
topography and significant trees.



Minimum lot standards that are used to establish a new subdivision in each zone are:

      Zone       Min. Lot Area              Min Lot Width      Min Street frontage
      R-1-43     43,560 sq. ft. (1 acre)    100'               75% of minimum lot width (75 feet)
      R-1-87     87,120 sq. ft. (2 acres)   150'               75% of minimum lot width (112.5 feet)




“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                              Page 3 of 16
                                             City of Holladay
                                  Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning

Other zoning standards for the R-1-43 / R-1-87 zones relevant to a proposal for a PUD:

    •   20-foot front setback from a private right of way
    •   Average Rear setback of 41 feet / 45 feet
    •   Side setbacks totaling 25% of the lot width with a minimum 10% on one side
            o (10 feet average on an 100’ wide lot, 15 feet average on a 150’ wide lot), leaving 15% on
                 the other (15 feet and 22 feet)
    •   Accessory building setbacks of 9 feet / 15 feet
    •   Total lot coverage of 23% / 20% for structures and 28% / 33% total impervious – bonus would
        allow an increase of 10% toward additional hard surfaces (not structures)
    •   Building height of 40 feet for lots over an acre (as required in each zone). Lots less than 1 acre
        and larger than ½ acre have a maximum height of 35 feet
    •   Graduated height requires that the structure fit within a building envelope created by a 45-
        degree angle from a point that is 8 feet above the property line.

Through a Planned Unit Development, the total number of allowed units established in the conceptual
standard subdivision can be placed in desired areas within the development instead of in set lots that
are required to meet the minimum size and width of the zone. Planned Unit Developments allow
flexibility of zone standards, with the exception of unit density, building height, graduated height, and
use regulations.

The purpose of a Planned Unit Development is to:
   • Permit flexibility in land use, allow diversification in the interrelationships of various uses and
       structures with their sites and thus offer an alternative to conventional development.
   • The application of planned unit development concepts is intended to encourage unique
       neighborhoods, high quality housing, exceptional design, additional open space, and facilities
       compatible with the present living environment in the city.
   • Ensuring compliance with the purpose protects the health, safety, and public welfare of the
       future inhabitants of, or visitors to the PUD.
   • Imaginative site planning and maximizing energy utilization efficiency are significant advantages
       that can be secured through a PUD, with the objective of preserving existing greenery and
       significant trees on site.
   • The PUD must create unique benefits for both the property owner and the city even though it
       does not allow additional density
   • Applicants must justify why the project is better than a project developed as the underlying
       zoning would allow

The City seeks to achieve specific objectives through the flexibility of a PUD, as will be noted in the
Technical Review Committee analysis.

Along with a narrative detailing the project, the applicant has provided
    1. A conceptual standard subdivision



“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                                Page 4 of 16
                                             City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning

   2. A site plan for a PUD that modifies the standard subdivision and identifies open space, tree
      protection, and establishes allowed buildable areas
   3. A civil set of plans that identifies grading, utilities (with utility will serve letters), and fire access
      details to meet the preliminary subdivision requirements




“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                                  Page 5 of 16
                                             City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning

STEP 1: CONCEPTUAL SUBDIVISION TO ESTABLISH BASE DENSITY
TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE ANALYSIS

        Verification of compliance with R-1-43 and R-1-87 zones
             a) 9 lots meet the minimum lot sizes with some additional land for fire access on the
                  west side of Big Cottonwood Creek
             b) Land use is residential
        Lot frontage of 75 feet at the right of way is met
        Lot width reduced from 100 feet due to significant trees, and streams/floodplains (see
         definition of lot width in 13.04.040
               LOT WIDTH: The diameter of the largest circle that can be inscribed entirely within a lot. The lot
               width circle shall not include streams/floodplains, wetlands, areas of thirty percent (30%) slope or
               greater or other natural hazard areas, or a "significant tree" as defined in this title. (See
               section 13.04.050, figure 13.04.050.2 of this chapter.)Utility Connection letters provided and
             in progress
                  i. Waiting for approval from SLC Public Utilities and Mount Olympus Sewer
                      Improvement District
        Fire access is okay
         a) Seven lots on the east side of Big Cottonwood Creek would all have fire access from
             Murray Holladay Road
         b) Two lots on the west side of Big Cottonwood Creek would have a fire access road and
             turn around to the rear lot. There is enough land on this side to accommodate fire
             access.
         c) No parking allowed in any fire access/turnaround areas


RECOMMENDATION
The TRC recommends that the commission open the required public hearing and consider any
comments presented. The CED Director has found that all required elements of a CONCEPTUAL
residential subdivision proposal have been reviewed and accepted by the TRC and have been
determined to be substantially complete as per the City’s submission requirements.

The public hearing should be continued and remain open, with no decision made until the next
meeting on September 2nd, 2025.

The TRC can recommend The Commission approve the CONCEPTUAL SUBDIVISION PLAN with the
following suggested findings and conditions.

“I _______ motion for (approval/continuation/denial) of the Conceptual Subdivision for “Amare Vita” a
nine-lot residential Subdivision in the R-1-43 and R-1-83 zones located at 6114, 6178, 6190 S Holladay
Blvd. and 2715 E. 6200 S., finding that:

   1) The development complies with the R-1-43 and R-1-87 zone standards


“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                                     Page 6 of 16
                                          City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                          Planning and Zoning

   2) Lot width can be reduced due to significant trees and other natural hazards the parcels
   3) Utility letters have been provided/are in progress
   4) Fire access requirements either are or can be met

And with the conditions that:
   1) A Preliminary plat is submitted and reviewed by the Planning Commission
   2) Remaining utility letters provided before final plat approval
   3) Any proposed PUD details the location of open space and preserved trees
   4) Final easement details and alignments to be included on the plat
   5) Fire access roads shall be improved to a material to hold 24 tons; no parking signage is required
       within required fire access areas




“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                           Page 7 of 16
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning



STEP 2: CONDITIONAL USE FOR A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE ANALYSIS
The TRC has verified that the applicant has submitted the necessary drawings and a descriptive narrative
outlining a PUD request. As a conditional use, PUDS are a permitted use based on meeting the minimum
land area required. Conditional uses may be approved if reasonable mitigation factors can be applied to
any potential impacts stemming from the PUD.

PUDs do not require a minimum area of land for each unit and allow for structures containing dwelling
units to be located in areas that make sense rather than following minimum lot sizes and dimensions.
The creation of individual lots within the PUD is a personal preference of the landowner/developer
based on how the developer seeks to delineate individual ownership within the project.

        Lot Size: The total land area is 11.42 acres (497, 455 square feet).
            • 4.29 acres are in the R-1-87 zone, which allows for 2 units per acre.
            •    7.18 acres are within the R-1-43 zone, which allows 1 unit per acre. Using the Maximum
                Density Calculation (13.04.040), the total number of units allowed is 9.
                    o Two dwelling units already exist on the property, and seven additional units are
                         being proposed, an increase of 7 new dwelling units and a total of 9 units
                         proposed.
                    o All units are proposed as single dwelling units.

        Building Setbacks:
        The setback code for all properties acknowledges that “The spacing of buildings and structures
        away from property lines, rights-of-way, physical hazards, and natural features such as streams
        and other buildings, are essential elements of land use planning and of urban design”.

        Uniform setbacks can produce a specific desired outcome, but flexibility is also important and
        appropriate. The setback code that all properties can utilize incorporates the ability to apply
        flexible setbacks through the use of establishing an average setback based on the size of a
        property and then allowing a variation of up to 15%, so long as the average is still met.

        In a PUD, similar principles of flexibility in setbacks can be proposed and applied, though the
        applicant can propose setbacks with a greater level of flexibility, to accomplish a variety of
        outcomes specific to accomplishing the purposes of a Planned Unit Development (see page 4 of
        this report). Typically, more flexible or reduced setbacks may be proposed as a trade-off to
        create more consolidated open space, to preserve vegetation or desirable features, or to
        manage physical limitations of the property.

        “Variability and flexibility of setback may produce equally important outcomes such as the
        protection of natural features, aesthetically pleasing streetscapes, creativity in architectural
        design, and other important goals. Due to the evolution of housing styles over the last few


“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                                Page 8 of 16
                                          City of Holladay
                               Community and Economic Development
                                          Planning and Zoning

       decades, the relatively high value of land within the community, the desire for architectural
       creativity, and especially the dramatic increase in average house construction costs, setbacks
       shall be applied within a flexible envelope.” (City of Holladay Code §13.14.050)

       Setbacks within the PUD are, for the most part irrelevant as there is no impact on neighboring
       properties. Perimeter setbacks are the main setbacks to look at for PUDS. Adding interior private
       roads creates orientations to those private roads rather than to Holladay Blvd. The applicant is
       proposing a reduction of a front yard setback of 35’ to 20’ for two structures on the east side of
       the project. However, as these structures are oriented to the interior private road, they can be
       assessed as either a rear or side setback. Additionally, the presence of Big Cottonwood Creek
       and the associated areas that cannot be built on makes each property a natural candidate for
       further reduced setbacks.


                                      REQUIRED (R-1-43)                    PROPOSED
        Front setback:
        The minimum setback on a      20 ft from the right-of-way line     None on interior/private
        private road of 20’                                                roads
        Rear setback:
        The minimum setback in feet 41 ft avg., no point closer than       100’+ for 6 lots adjacent to
        from the rear property line 34.5 ft                                the creek; 30’ for lot 9
        Side setback:
        The minimum side setback in 25% of the minimum lot width of        Perimeter: 6’6” at the
        feet                        100 feet; minimum 10% (10 feet)        closest point on north,
                                                                           increasing toward the east
                                                                           to 20’. 20’ on south.
                                                                           Interior setbacks of 5’ (as
                                                                           PUE) on lots 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
                                                                           and 7
        Corner side setback           20 feet                              20 feet (Holladay Blvd)
        Accessory building setback    9 feet                               None proposed



                                      REQUIRED (R-1-87)                    PROPOSED
        Front setback:
        The minimum setback on a      20 ft from the right-of-way line     None on interior/private
        private road of 20’                                                roads
        Rear setback:




“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                            Page 9 of 16
                                          City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                          Planning and Zoning

        The minimum setback in feet 45 ft avg., no point closer than 38   20 feet.
        from the rear property line ft.
        Side setback:
        The minimum side setback in 25% of the minimum lot width of       20 feet and 100 feet
        feet                        150 feet; minimum 10% (15 feet)
        Accessory building setback     15 feet                            20 proposed


Building Height: PUD
conditions may not alter
allowable height.
Compliance with
§13.14.070 is required. As
the proposed PUD creates
individual lots that are
smaller than the minimum
required in the R-1-43
zone, building height would
be limited to 35 feet.
Structures would be
required to meet
graduated height
requirements from each
                            Figure 1
property line as shown in
Figure 1.

Lot Coverage: Lot coverage should meet the requirements of the underlying zone whenever possible.

   •   In an R-1-43 zone with 43,560 sq. ft minimum lots, coverage is limited to 23% for structures and
       28% total impervious coverage.
   •   In the R-1-87 zone with 87,210 sq. ft minimum lots, coverage is limited to 20% for structures and
       25% total impervious coverage.
   •   Bonus coverage up to 10% can be applied for additional hard surfaces.

Areas of coverage are tabulated on page 3 of the preliminary plan. For simplification, it may be
reasonable to set a coverage maximum for the entire project at either the 23%/28% for the R-1-43 zone,
or at a mid point between the two. Land within the R-1-43 zone accounts for 60% of the project area, so
a coverage limit of 22%/27% would be reasonable. This is something that can be discussed with the
applicant during the meeting.




“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                          Page 10 of 16
                                           City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning

Purpose statement and objectives:
             1. The stabilization and preservation of the existing or planned land uses in abutting
           areas and surrounding residential neighborhoods;
                        i. Existing and planned land uses are residential. This project stabilizes and
                           preserves residential land use by utilizing unclaimed density.
                       ii. Properties in the area are zoned as both R-1-87 and R-1-43 and are single
                           family estates. The PUD overall functions as and appears as a singular estate
                           while the properties within it carry a similar feel as estate properties that
                           have a single-family home and guest home on one- and two-acre properties.
                           Some lots are non-conforming to zones, shown in a parcel size analysis map
                           as an attachment to this report.

              2. Preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics such as natural
            topography, vegetation and geologic features, and the prevention of soil erosion;
                           i. Preservation of Big Cottonwood Creek and it’s riparian corridor
                                   1. 100 ft preservation area around creek exceeds the requirement
                                       for developed parcels, increasing preservation more than would
                                       be required on two of four parcels.
                                   2. Clustering dwelling units to the east side of the creek allows for
                                       more open space on the west side of the creek
                                   3. The wide area of preservation maintains the natural topography
                                       around the creek, preserves all vegetation around the creek, and
                                       prevents soil erosion by keeping development further from the
                                       creek than required in some areas.

              3. Preservation of buildings which are architecturally or historically significant or
            contribute to the character of the city;
                     i. Existing structures are not proposed to be preserved
                    ii. Historic rock wall structures on 6200 S. and Holladay Blvd. are to be preserved

              4. Maximizing and preserving vegetation and open space and/or other special
            development amenities to provide light, air and privacy, to buffer abutting properties and
            to provide active and passive recreation opportunities for residents of the planned
            development and/or the community;
                          i. Open space and vegetation around the creek will be preserved in excess of a
                             standard subdivision
                         ii. Moving one of the allowed dwelling units from the west side to the east side
                             of the creek creates more open space on the west side of the creek
                        iii. Walls and fencing on the perimeter of the project area ensure privacy and
                             buffering for residents within the PUD and to abutting properties
                        iv. Preservation of trees on property lines, in 100’ creek boundary, and in
                             locations not affected by building areas
                         v. Proposed pool to provide active recreation opportunities for residents of the
                             planned unit development


“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                            Page 11 of 16
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning

                        vi. Trees along perimeter of property to be retained as shown on Tree Canopy
                            Sustainability Plan, removed canopy (areas affected by roads and potential
                            homes) to be replaced with an equivalent canopy at maturity.

               5. Minimize significant through traffic impacts on adjacent residential neighborhoods;
                         i. Reduction of driveways on Holladay Blvd to a singular access road, located
                            centrally, away from the corner.
                        ii. Relocating one of the dwelling units from the west side to the east side
                            reduces the number of driveway accesses on 6200 S.
                       iii. Improvements to existing approaches and adding a private road for internal
                            circulation

              6. Provide an appropriate transition or buffering between uses of differing intensities
            both on site and off site; and
                          i. Residential use and intensity is maintained
                         ii. South boundary land use is a residential treatment center with a higher
                             intensity than the proposed project
                        iii. North boundary is adjacent to a private, 20’ wide road
                             1. The closest residential structure to the north property line is 185 feet to
                                 the north.
                        iv. New 6’ wall located along Holladay Blvd and 6200 S., behind the existing
                             historic walls

              7. Provide safe and convenient vehicle and pedestrian connections between adjacent
            uses. (Ord. 2014-06, 5-1-2014)
                          i. Improvement of private roads to meet fire access standards within the
                             development. No fire access over Big Cottonwood Creek, bridge only to be
                             used by vehicles and pedestrians within the PUD
                         ii. Dedication of 7 feet on Holladay Blvd
                        iii. Singular access point on Holladay Blvd and on 6200 S.

Compatibility: The proposed PUD is designed in a similar manner as other estate properties in the area
on both Holladay Blvd and 6200 S., with walls and gates at entrances to private roads or driveways.
Many estate properties are composed of both primary dwelling units and guest homes on single parcels
either 1 acre or 2 acres, dictated by the zone they are within.

An analysis of lot sizes within the immediate vicinity is shown in Figure 2 (next page) and as a full-page
attachment following this report.

Properties in the area and especially along Big Cottonwood Creek have dense tree canopy coverage.
Two vicinity maps are attached to this report.




“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                              Page 12 of 16
                                                City of Holladay
                                   Community and Economic Development
                                                Planning and Zoning

The addition of the proposed dwelling
units does not degrade the service level
on adjacent streets or create unusual
traffic patterns or volumes as all traffic
will be managed through a singular gated
entrance on Holladay Blvd and a separate
entrance on 6200 S. The creation of an
internal private road reduces the access
points that would be present for a
standard subdivision.

The PUD is designed in a way to reduce
the amount of pavement required for
roadways, which also increases the
efficiency of utility/energy delivery as it
places structures closer to the road
where utility lines exist. Will serve letters
from Salt Lake City Public Utilities and
Mount Olympus Sewer are in progress.


RECOMMENDATION
A motion to approve the PUD is
recommended IF, as a result of this
discussion, the proposed layout is
determined to be acceptable OR in-
meeting modifications to the layout can
be articulated by the PC and determined
                                                 Figure 2
as acceptable by the applicant.

Planning Commission’s scope of approval is designated by code §13.78.130. Staff urges the commission
to review this section while carrying out the intent of the Planned Unit Development Chapter. PUD
control that is exercised should be the minimum necessary to achieve the purpose of a PUD.

The TRC recommends that the commission open the required public hearing and consider any
comments presented. The CED Director has found that all required elements of a PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT proposal have been reviewed and accepted by the TRC and have been determined to be
substantially complete as per the City’s submission requirements.

PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, CONDITIONAL USE MOTION
The TRC recommends the commission approve the AMARE VITA PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, A
CONDITIONAL USE.



“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                        Page 13 of 16
                                           City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning

Should the PC arrive at a consensus regarding acceptable PUD elements, the following motion, findings
and conditions are suggested;

“I _______ move for approval of a Planned Unit Development for “Amare Vita”, a residential nine-lot
residential Subdivision in the R-1-43 and R-1-83 zones located at 6114, 6178, 6190 S Holladay Blvd. and
2715 E. 6200 S., finding that the proposal;
      1. Is consistent with the future land use map
      2. Complies with the allowed land uses of R-1-43 and R-1-87 zone as a single-family residential
          subdivision.
      3. The proposed density of 9 units is within the allowed density of 9 units
      4. Is granted flexibility to zone standards via the Planning Commission
      5. Meets the purpose statement for a Planned Unit Development
      6. Is compatible with the character of the site, adjacent properties, and development in the
          vicinity of the site
      7. Stabilizes and preserves existing residential uses
      8. Provides for the preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics
      9. Increases protection of Big Cottonwood Creek, its stream banks, and the associated vegetation
      10. Preserves vegetation as a buffer between adjacent properties to the extent possible
          considering roads and structure placement
      11. Creates open space that provides passive and active recreation space for the residents of the
          PUD
      12. No significant traffic impacts or degradation of the service level on streets used to access the
          PUD as the entire project entails a single access point on Holladay Blvd and a single access
          point on 6200 S.
      13. All adjacent uses are residential of similar or higher intensity
      14. Required fire access improvements and new fire hydrants within the project enhance safety for
          the PUD and neighboring properties
      15. …other findings as deemed appropriate to support the motion”

With the following suggested conditions:
   1. Maximum coverage of structures across the project limited to 22% and impervious surfaces
       limited to 27%, or 37% with bonus treatments identified and applied.
   2. Removed tree canopy to be replaced with an equivalent mature canopy according to 13.77.080
   3. Historic rock walls to remain and be maintained by the property owner

Contingent upon a motion to approve the PUD as proposed; the TRC has verified that all required
Preliminary level elements of a residential subdivision proposal have been reviewed determined to be
substantially complete as per the City’s submission requirements. However, if elements of the PUD plan
have been modified during this meeting – a revision to the Preliminary Plat may be necessary to
accurately reflect the PC approval details. In which case a motion to continue is recommended.




“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                            Page 14 of 16
                                           City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning

STEP 3: PRELIMINARY PLAT DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE ANALYSIS
The TRC has reviewed the supplied preliminary development drawings for compliance with minimum
standards for development in the R-1-43 and R-1-87 zones.

    •   PRELIMINARY SITE DEVELOPMENT: all elements as required by Holladay Ord 13.10.050B
         Verification of compliance with R-1-43 and R-1-87 zones - density and land use
         Verification of utility connection serve letters, with water and sewer in progress
         Utility design and connection locations
         Storm water/erosion control plans
           a) Storm water management for the site to be reviewed and okayed by the City Engineer
               and Salt Lake County for any discharge into Big Cottonwood Creek
         Inclusion of Storm Water Protection Plans SWPP – required prior to final approval; see
           conditions
         Dust mitigation plan during construction and demolition -required prior to final approval;
           see conditions
         UFA approval of access shown on PUD site plan. Civil plans and final plat to reflect approved
           access

    •   PRELIMINARY PLAT/OWNERSHIP
         Preparation of Residential Plat – title of plat reflects this land use
         Buildable areas are shown on plat with owned parcels designated as owned and common
           areas (road access) designated as such

RECOMMENDATION
As motion to approve the development and number of residential units within the Preliminary
Subdivision plat for “Amare Vita” is directly related to the R-1-43 and R-1-87 zones. Proposed alternate
site layout and preservation of open space is contingent upon a PUD approval.

Planning Commission’s scope of approval is designated within §13.10A.070. The TRC can recommend
The Commission approve the PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAN with the following suggested findings
and conditions. Any conditions associated with the Conditional Use Permit for the PUD element would
apply with any approval of the Preliminary Subdivision.

PRELMINARY SUBDIVSION MOTION
the TRC recommends approval of the PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION with the following suggested findings
and conditions;

“I _______ motion for (approval/continuation/denial) of the Preliminary Plat for “Amare Vita” nine-lot
residential Subdivision in the R-1-43 and R-1-83 zones located at 6114, 6178, 6190 S Holladay Blvd. and
2715 E. 6200 S., finding that:


“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                            Page 15 of 16
                                           City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning


    1) The development complies with the underlying zone
    2) Utility letters and a title report have been provided
    3) A grading and drainage plan has been provided and the plat notes that required onsite storm
       water retention will be addressed for each dwelling unit with their building permit application
    4) The property is not within a special hazards area and does not require additional geotechnical
       reporting
    5) Fire access requirements are met as shown in PUD site plan; updates to civil set to reflect what is
       shown on the PUD site plan – no fire access on any portion of parcel # 22111580160000 (4867 S
       Floribunda Dr.)
    6) Construction elements and details are found to be acceptable by various divisions the Technical
       Review Committee
    7) PUD elements are found to be incorporated on the approved drawings.

And with the conditions that:
   1) Provide an updated civil plan that reflects accurate access
           a. All comments on the civil set of plans by the City Engineer be addressed prior to final
   2) Final easement details and alignments to be detailed on the plat
   3) SWPP is required to be submitted prior to final or pre-construction, as required by the Assistant
       City Engineer
   4) Dust mitigation plan is required prior to any construction, in a pre-construction meeting, as
       required by Assistant City Engineer
   5) Fire access roads shall be improved to a material to hold 24 tons; no parking signage is required
       within required fire access areas

“Also, within in one year and in accordance with 13.10A.070.E, approval of the FINAL PLAT by the
Technical Review Committee.”




“Amare Vita” PUD and Preliminary Subdivision Review
                                                                                            Page 16 of 16
After Recording, return to:
City of Holladay
4580 S 2300 E
Holladay, Utah 84117




                                       ABSTRACT OF DECISION

I, Dennis Roach, being first duly sworn, depose and say that I am the appointed Chair of the City of Holladay Planning
Commission, which is the designated Administrative Appeal Authority in regards to zone boundary and map
interpretations within the City of Holladay, and that on the twelfth day of August 2025, Application 25-5-06, submitted
by J.U.B. Engineering, as representative of the property owner, Doma Terra Holdings, was heard. Upon finding that the
Holladay City Code §13.11.050A and B allows zone boundaries to be determined by either parcel boundaries or natural
features, including waterways, and that the Planning Commission has the authority to clarify zone boundaries, it was
determined that the request meets the criteria in §13.11.05A.
With the authority to interpret the zone boundary as per Section 13.09.020 E of the Land Use and Development
Regulations of the City of Holladay, Utah, the Planning Commission, as the Appeal Authority, hereby approved the
request for the R-1-43 zone to apply to the entire parcel according to zone boundary rules 13.11.050A instead of the
existing application of zone boundary rule 13.11.000B to the property, addressed as 6114 S. Holladay Boulevard.


The property is more particularly described as follows:

Legal description: BEG N 89¿57'21" E 310.51 FT & N 345.78 FT FR SW COR SEC 14, T2S, R1E, SLM; N
03¿17'28" E 10.97 FT; N 30¿06'50" W 5.01 FT; N 89¿16'43" W 2.86 FT; N 01¿40'17" W 92.45 FT; .N
11¿12'25" W 73.73 FT; N 05¿39' E 41.54 FT; N 24¿13' W 16.85 FT; N 88¿02' E 134.81 FT; N 84¿31'53" E
130.16 FT; N 79¿56'33" E 14.15 FT; N 75¿59' E 55.10 FT; N 74¿43'32" E 253.30 FT; S 00¿09' E 336.64 FT; N
89¿59' W 552.35 FT M OR LTO BEG. 3.52 AC M OR L. 09841-5924 10682-4364 10687-9365

Parcel ID #22-14-352-016
                                                 _________________________________
                                                 Dennis Roach
                                                 Chair, Planning Commission
                                                 Administrative Appeal Authority
                                                 City of Holladay
STATE OF UTAH
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE

On this __ day of ______________, 20*, personally appeared before me __________________, the signer of
the foregoing instrument, who duly acknowledged to me that he executed the same.


                                                 __________________________________
                                                 Notary Public
                                                 Residing in Salt Lake County, Utah
                 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
Residential Subdivision and PUD (a Conditional Use) – “Amare Vita”
Date:                         Tuesday, August 19, 2025 and Tuesday, September 2nd
Time:                         As close to 6:00 pm as possible
Location:                     City Hall – City Council Chambers
Hearing Body:                 Planning Commission

 Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
 conduct a rescheduled public hearing during review and consideration of a
 nine lot subdivision plan proposed by the applicant, J.U.B Engineering to
 subdivide 11.42 acres of land located at 6114, 6178, 6190 S Holladay Blvd. in
 the R-1-87 zone and 2715 E. 6200 S. in the R-1-43 zone, to accommodate
 construction of a 9 individual dwelling units. This application will be
 reviewed by the Planning Commission for compliance with Holladay
 Ordinance 13.10A and as a conditional use as a PUD in compliance with 13.78.
 Public hearings for the subdivision and PUD will be held on September 2nd
 at 6:00 PM.
    **No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with this application. **
 Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm 9/1/2025 to Carrie Marsh,
 cmarsh@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments received by the designated
 times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to each meeting.

 Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to join this
 meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
 agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch the
 video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay Website.
 ATTENTION:       This notice was mailed 08/15/2025 by order of the Community and Economic Development Director,
 Jonathan Teerlink, to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your residence,
 please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.




                 NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
Residential Subdivision and PUD (a Conditional Use) – “Amare Vita”

Date:                         Tuesday, August 19, 2025 and Tuesday, September 2nd
Time:                         As close to 6:00 pm as possible
Location:                     City Hall – City Council Chambers
Hearing Body:                 Planning Commission

Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
conduct a rescheduled public hearing during review and consideration of a
nine lot subdivision plan proposed by the applicant, J.U.B Engineering to
subdivide 11.42 acres of land located at 6114, 6178, 6190 S Holladay Blvd. in the
R-1-87 zone and 2715 E. 6200 S. in the R-1-43 zone, to accommodate
construction of a 9 individual dwelling units. This application will be reviewed
by the Planning Commission for compliance with Holladay Ordinance 13.10A
and as a conditional use as a PUD in compliance with 13.78. Public hearings for
the subdivision and PUD will be held on September 2nd at 6:00 PM.
      **No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with this application. **

Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm on 9/1/2025 to Carrie Marsh,
cmarsh@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments received by the designated times
will be forwarded to the Commission prior to each meeting.

Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to join this
meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted agenda,
prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch the video
stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay Website.
 ATTENTION:       This notice was mailed 08/15/2025 by order of the Community and Economic Development Director,
 Jonathan Teerlink, to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your residence,
 please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.
Amare Vita Subdivision PUD – CUP and Subdivision Application Narrative

The following is intended to fulfill the City of Holladay Subdivision and CUP application
submittal requirements for a project narrative and address elements of Holladay
Ordinance 13.08.040F.

The Amare Vita Subdivision PUD is located northwest of the intersection of South
Holladay Boulevard and East 6200 South/Big Cottonwood Road. It consists of
approximately 497,585 square feet (11.42 acres) divided into nine (9) residential building
lots. Lot 1 lies west of Big Cottonwood Creek in the R-1-87 Single Family Residential
zone. Lots 2-9 are located east of the creek in the R-1-43 Single Family Residential zone.
Big Cottonwood Creek is in the AE flood hazard zone, as identified on the FEMA Flood
Insurance Rate Map. For this reason, the Amare Vita PUD prioritizes the preservation of
sensitive areas and open space by maintaining a 100’ minimum building setback from
Big Cottonwood Creek and preserving mature vegetation along the creek and across the
site to the greatest extent possible. In this context, the following responses to the
requirements of Holladay Ordinance 18.08.040F are provided below.

13.08.040

F. Approval Standards: A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are
proposed by the applicant, or can be imposed by the land use authority, to mitigate the
potential detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards
set forth in this section.

   1. A conditional use shall:

    a. Be consistent with policies set forth in the city's general plan applicable to the site
       where the conditional use will be located.

        As proposed, the Amare Vita Subdivision PUD fulfills land use Goals of the
        Holladay General Plan:

        1. Maintain the established pattern of development in the City.




          392 East Winchester Street, Suite 300, Salt Lake City, UT 84107 p 801-886-9052 w jub.com
   2. Ensure that new developments are high quality and compatible with the
   surrounding neighborhoods.

   3. Retain the natural character of the City and its neighborhoods…

   In addition, lot sizes proposed are consistent with the intent of the CE-P
   (Country Estates – Protected) land use district of the Future Land Use Map: “…to
   preserve the existing large lot development patterns, the mature tree canopy,
   and the ambience created by estate type development often on private lanes.
   New development can be appropriately accommodated through utilizing
   unclaimed density by subdivision and not by rezones.” (pg. 16, Holladay General
   Plan)

   Furthermore, the subdivision fulfills natural resources and sustainability goals of
   the General Plan:

   2. Protect the riparian areas, waterways and habitats that currently give Holladay
   its unique character.

   3. Protect and renew the mature tree canopy…

b. Be allowed by the zone regulations where the conditional use will be located.

   The proposed density (0.79 dwelling units per acre or 1.27 acres per lot) does
   not exceed the overall density requirements of the existing zoning.

   Property west of Big Cottonwood Creek consists of 4.55 acres in the R-1-87 zone
   in which the minimum lot size is two (2) acres, and which could be subdivided
   into two (2) lots with a remainder of 0.55 acres. Property east of the creek
   consists of 6.87 acres in the R-1-43 zone in which the minimum lot size is one (1)
   acre and which could be divided into seven (7) lots by including the 0.55
   remaining acreage to the west. This yields a total of nine (9) lots.

   The PUD provides flexibility of lot sizes under the allowable density while
   maximizing the preservation of sensitive areas along Big Cottonwood Creek.

c. Be compatible with the character of the site, adjacent properties and uses, and
   existing development within the vicinity of the site where the use will be located.

   The surrounding neighborhood is also zoned R-1-87 and R-1-43 and consists of
   developed, single family residential estates.



                                         2
d. Provide vehicular access to the site without materially degrading the existing level
   of service of the abutting streets.

   The PUD proposes to improve the existing approach to Lot 1 from 6200 S,
   providing a safer approach for ingress and egress. The development plan also
   proposes to improve the existing approach to Lot 7 from Holladay Boulevard,
   further improving safe ingress/egress.

   There are currently (3) three existing access points along Holladay Boulevard.
   This development will reduce the access points to only (1) one point, thereby
   improving the traffic flow and reducing stress points for access to and from the
   development.

   Fire and emergency vehicles will access Lot 1, west of Cottonwood Creek, from
   6200 South Street. Access to Lots 2-9, east of Cottonwood Creek, will access
   from Holladay Boulevard. Fire and Emergency vehicles will be provided with
   hammerhead-style turn-around points along the private roads, sufficient for
   vehicle maneuvers. The vehicle ramp that crosses Cottonwood Creek will not be
   designed to carry large emergency vehicles and therefore will not be able to
   access points across the creek.

e. Locate all driveways oriented to direct traffic to streets, major or local, without
   impacting the safety, purpose, and character of these streets.

   See previous.

f. Locate on site parking areas and structures, particularly those locations likely to
   encourage street side parking for the proposed use, in areas of the site that will
   not adversely impact the reasonable use of adjacent properties.

   Not applicable – the proposed development includes private drives with off-
   street parking.

g. Accommodate peak traffic to the site without impairing the use and enjoyment of
   adjacent properties.

   As proposed, improvements to existing approaches and the addition of a
   private drive for drive-through circulation provide maximum flexibility and
   circulation while maintaining ease of use for emergency vehicles if necessary.

h. Provide an internal circulation system designed to mitigate adverse impacts on
   adjacent property from motorized, nonmotorized, and pedestrian traffic.

                                          3
     See previous.

i.   Restrict hours of operation of the proposed conditional use in relation to the hours
     of activity or operation of other nearby uses to mitigate noise, light, odor, or other
     nuisances that unreasonably impair the use and enjoyment of adjacent properties.

     Not applicable to this PUD.

j.   Demonstrate existing or proposed utility and public services will be adequate to
     support the proposed use at normal service levels and is designed in a manner to
     avoid adverse impacts on adjacent land uses, public services, and utility resources.

     Sewer service will be provided by Mount Olympus Improvement District.
     Culinary water will be provided by the Salt Lake Department of Public Utilities.
     Power will be provided by Rocky Mountain Power and Enbridge Gas will provide
     natural gas. Stormwater will be directed into swales and along surface routes
     that will discharging into Cottonwood Creek. Below ground drainage systems
     will be minimized as much as possible to allow filtration of storm water into
     natural aquifers and Cottonwood Creek.

     The 20’ private drive proposed is acceptable to the fire department along with
     (3) hydrants, placed at key locations. The applicant intends to proceed in
     compliance with this requirement.

k. Install appropriate buffering, such as landscaping, setbacks, and building location,
   to protect adjacent land uses from light, noise, and visual impacts resulting from
   the proposed use. (Ord. 2015-02, 2-5-2015; amd. Ord. 2016-04, 4-14-2016)

     The current zoning code requires a minimum 35’ front yard setback from
     Holladay Boulevard. However, in this proposed PUD, the lots adjacent to
     Holladay Boulevard will be oriented such that Holladay Boulevard serves as
     a side yard, not a front yard, for these lots. The fronts of all lots will face inward
     toward the private roads within the subdivision. In consideration of mitigating
     impacts to Big Cottonwood Creek to the greatest extent possible, the PUD
     proposes an alternative 20’ setback from Holladay Boulevard, which will function
     as a side yard setback. This configuration allows a minimum 100’ building
     setback from the creek to be maintained throughout the subdivision. Landscape
     buffering, privacy screening, and building locations are intended to provide
     maximum privacy for property within and adjacent to the subdivision.



                                           4
        A 6-foot-high privacy wall is intended to be constructed along Holladay
        Boulevard and 6200 South Street. A privacy gate is intended to be constructed at
        each access point to these roads. This gate will sit 18 feet inside the property line
        to allow vehicles to safely access the gate, operate a remote opener card reader,
        and enter the property onto the private roadway.

   2. A conditional use shall not:

    a. Contribute to a detrimental concentration of existing nonconforming or
       conditional uses substantially similar to the use proposed within one-fourth (1/4)
       mile of the exterior boundary of the subject property;

        The proposed PUD does not contribute to any existing nonconforming uses.

    b. Result in loss of privacy, objectionable views of large parking or storage areas; or
       views or sounds of loading and unloading areas; and

        As proposed, the lot layout and building footprints will maximize privacy for all
        property owners within and adjacent to the subdivision.

    c. Encroach on or cause erosion of the bank of a river or stream, or direct runoff into
       a river or stream without approval by the appropriate stormwater authority.

        See previous responses regarding protection of sensitive areas and onsite
        stormwater management.

   3. The proposed conditional use and associated development shall comply with all
other applicable provisions of this title and this code.

Conclusions

The conditional use of the Amare Vita Subdivision PUD will not conflict with the public
interest and is in keeping with adopted elements of Holladay Ordinance 13.08.040F.

Conclusion

Sincerely,




                                             5
Jerron Atkin, PLS & CFedS, Land Development Lead
J-U-B ENGINEERS, Inc.

June 26, 2025




                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HOLLADAY BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I-215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONCEPT STANDARD SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A PART OF THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SECTION 14, T2S, R1E, S.L.B.&M.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BIG COTTONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXIT 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BIG C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO                          ROAD TONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          59'                                                                                                                       TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      253.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng                                                                                                                                                                                                OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rossi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                645.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C                                                                                                                                                      I-215                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Cre Private)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N 75°59'00" E                      Lane                           E                                                                                   7' WIDE AREA TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '32"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 55.10'                                          4°43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BE DEDICATED TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N 79°56'33" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14.15'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N7                                                                                                   HOLLADAY CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (0.10 acres)                   PROJECT VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                130.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N 24°13'00" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         134.81'             N 84°31'53"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16.84'          N 88°02'00" E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AS SURVEYED AREA TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N 5°39'00" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    41.54'                                                                                            LOT #3                                                                                                                                                          HOLLADAY RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ACRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4,508.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N 11°12'34" W                                                                                          1.00 ACRES                                                                                                                                                      BC CANYON RD 0.22                                          9,395
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.83'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FIRE EASEMENT 0.10                                         4,520.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 89°59'12" E                                              286.12'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SUBDIVISION   11.00                                        479,160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL AREA = 11.42                                         497,584.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ACK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 524.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SETB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              100' C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REEK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT #4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DEED AREA TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.00 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARCEL                       ACRE                          ZONE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2214351014                   4.29                          R-1-87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2214352016                   3.52                          R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2214352006                   1.94                          R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT #2                                                                                                                            LOT #5                                                                                                                                                2214352007                   1.72                          R-1-43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HOLLADAY BLVD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL AREA =                 11.47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.07 ACRES                                                                                                                       1.00 ACRES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAXIMUM DENSITY TABLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ZONE               DENSITY ACRES                                   UNITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R-1-87             2/ACRE   4.29                                   2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT #6                                          )                                                                                                  R-1-43             1/ACRE   7.18                                   7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.03 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3                                                                                                                               TOTAL UNITS =                              9


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   )                                                                                                                                                 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7                                                                                                                                                 -                                                                                                                    AREA TABULATION TABLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8                                                                                                                                                1                                                                                                                                                  SQ. FT.                                                           % OF TOTAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -                                                                                                                                               -                                                                                                                                TOTAL PROPERTY AREA    497,585                                                           100%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1                                                                                                                                               R                                                                                                                                       TOTAL BUILDABLE AREA   271,558                                                           58%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                                                 100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ' CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (           LOT #7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL BUILDING AREA*   64,700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA* 35,007
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KS                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL LANDSCAPED AREA* 397,878                                                           80%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R                                                                     ETB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AC                                                                                       1.00 ACRES                                                                                                                   TOTAL ROAD AREA        53,925                                                            11%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (                                                                                  K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *LOTS 2-9 APPROXIMATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT #1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.00 ACRES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT #8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.00 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S 0°08'13" E
Date Created:8/29/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\SURVEY\DWG\83-24-006_V-SP_PLAT.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 0°19'30" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 89°51'47" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT #9                                      7.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              32.05'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1°0                                                                                      1.00 ACRES                            S 0°08'13" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      West        79.00'                   13 8'24                                                                                                                            37.37'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       South                                 4.7 " W                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMMON SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             West                                               3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             39.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIMITED COMMON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N 89°50'45" W                           245.01'
                                                                                                                                       BIG COTTONWOOD CANYON RD.                                                                                                                                             South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             17.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 89°59'36" W                                                 375.86'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUILDABLE AREA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40' WIDE AREA TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIRE ACCESS EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BE DEDICATED TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HOLLADAY CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.22 acres)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0                50           100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Applicant/Designer                   Owner/Developer:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         J-U-B                               Doma Terra Holdings, LLC
Plot Date:8/29/2025 5:17 PM Plotted By: Jerron Atkin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         c/o Jerron Atkin, PLS & CFedS       9350 S. 150 East, Ste. 1000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         392 E. Winchester Street            Sandy, UT 84070                                   SCALE IN FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Salt Lake City, UT 84107            (801) 563-4179
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (801) 589-2229

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T                                                              J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FILE : 83-24-006_V-SP_PLAT                                                                                                                                                                   LAST UPDATED: 8/29/2025

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                         REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                            J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND OTHER RESERVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AN                                                                                                                                                                                                   JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                            RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E D L          T                                                                      392 E. Winchester St.                                                                      PRELIMINARY                          DRAWN BY: JRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A IDE SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2715 E 6200 S, HOLLADAY, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AGENCY




                                                                                                                                            PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT. ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESIGN BY: JRA
                                                                                                                                            AT CLIENT'S SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P                                            PROVIDED                                              Suite 300                                                                              PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                           REVISION                                             S OV N P                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CHECKED BY: CONCEPT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P B TA C                                 FOR SUB-CONSULTANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOGO AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NOT FOR                                             ONE INCH                                                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SU S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ADDRESS INFOR                                             Phone: 801.886.9052                                                          CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY                 PRELIMINARY PLAT - CONCEPT STANDARD SUBDIVISION WITH TREES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO                                                                                                            www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                      NO.                         DESCRIPTION                             BY APR.    DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HOLLADAY BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I-215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A PART OF THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SECTION 14, T2S, R1E, S.L.B.&M.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              43                                                                                                                                                                    BIG COTTONWOOD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -   1-                                                                                                                                                                          ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIT 6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8   7                                                                                                                                                                             n   e:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1-                                                                                                                                                                                 o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BIG C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -                                                                                                                                                                                    Z                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CO                                OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROAD TONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         59'                                                                                                                                           TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           253.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            on                                                                                                                                                                                                             rossi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         645.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C                                                                                                                                               7' WIDE AREA TO                                                I-215                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Z                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cre Private)                                                                                                                                           BE DEDICATED TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N 75°59'00" E                                Lane                                    E                                                                                                              HOLLADAY CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            55.10'                                                       °4      3'32"                                                                                                                   (0.10 acres)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N 74
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 79°56'33" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14.15'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           130.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N 24°13'00" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  134.81'               N 84°31'53"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16.84'         N 88°02'00" E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AS SURVEYED AREA TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N 5°39'00" E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ACRE                                         SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              41.54'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT #2                                                                                                                                                                                                  HOLLADAY RD   0.10                                         4,508.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 11°12'34" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.83'                                                                                                                    0.72 ACRES                                                                                 LOT #9                                                                                           - 4 3       BC CANYON RD 0.22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIRE EASEMENT 0.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9,395
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4,520.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S 89°59'12" E                                                                 286.12'                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.73 ACRES                                                                                                   SUBDIVISION   11.00                                        479,160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      e   :                        TOTAL AREA = 11.42                                         497,584.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2715 E 6200 S, Holladay, UT 84121




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ETBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   on



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        524.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REEK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       100' C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Z




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pa                                                                                                                                        DEED AREA TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            r ce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT #3                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARCEL                       ACRE                          ZONE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2214351014                   4.29                          R-1-87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.88 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                     2214352016                   3.52                          R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2214352006                   1.94                          R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROPOSED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2214352007                   1.72                          R-1-43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOLLADAY BLVD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GARAGE PAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOTAL AREA =                 11.47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VEHICLE BRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NO FIRE ACCESS                                                                             20' PRIVATE ROAD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAXIMUM DENSITY TABLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ZONE               DENSITY ACRES                                   UNITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8   7                                                                                                                                        LOT #4                                                                                                                                                                                            R-1-87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2/ACRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1/ACRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -   1-                                                                                                                                               0.82 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL UNITS =                              9
                                                                                                                                                                                          7                                                                                                              R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20' PRIVATE ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                        8                                                                                                          e :
                                                                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          K
                                                                                                                                                                                 -1                                                                                                              n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Zo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AREA TABULATION TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                        :                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Pa
                                                                                                                                                                     ne                                                                                                                                                       LOT #1                                                                                                                                                   r ce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SQ. FT.                                                           % OF TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                Zo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL PROPERTY AREA    497,585                                                           100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.55 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL BUILDABLE AREA   271,558                                                           58%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HOUSE PAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ' CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT #5                                                                                LOT #8                                                                                                      TOTAL BUILDING AREA*   64,700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA* 35,007
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EE                                                                                                                                                                                       0.79 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ETB                                                                                         0.76 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL LANDSCAPED AREA* 397,878                                                           80%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K                                                                                                                          4     3                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL ROAD AREA        53,925                                                            11%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 -                                                                                                                                                              *LOTS 2-9 APPROXIMATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pa                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             rce                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l1                                                                                                                                                          n     e:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Z o

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT #6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.89 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rce




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S 0°08'13" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               'P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RIV
Date Created:8/28/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\SURVEY\DWG\83-24-006_V-SP_PLAT.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          POS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PRO SSORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N 0°19'30" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ACC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S 89°51'47" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7.00'                                                                                       LEGEND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT #7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       32.05'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1°0                                                                                                                                                                S 0°08'13" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               West        79.00'                   13 8'24                                                                                                                                                                37.37'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                South                                 4.7 " W                                                               0.96 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMMON SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      West                                               3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      39.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LIMITED COMMON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N 89°50'45" W                                         245.01'                      South                                                                                                                       N 89°59'36" W
                                                                                                                                      BIG COTTONWOOD CANYON RD.                                                                                                                                                                       17.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         375.86'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BUILDABLE AREA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                              3                                                                    40' WIDE AREA TO                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                          4                                                                                                                                                                                             -1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FIRE ACCESS EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                       1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BE DEDICATED TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                   -                                                                               HOLLADAY CITY                                                                                                    R                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                           :
                                                                                                                                                                                               R                                                                                   (0.22 acres)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           n   e:                                                                                                                                                                       1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                         e                                                                                                                                                                                               o                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                 Zo
                                                                                                                                                                                       n                                                                                                                                                                                               Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         e :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Zo


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                50           100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Applicant/Designer                   Owner/Developer:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J-U-B                               Doma Terra Holdings, LLC
Plot Date:8/28/2025 2:21 PM Plotted By: Jerron Atkin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      c/o Jerron Atkin, PLS & CFedS       9350 S. 150 East, Ste. 1000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      392 E. Winchester Street            Sandy, UT 84070                                   SCALE IN FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Salt Lake City, UT 84107            (801) 563-4179
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (801) 589-2229

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T                                                                           J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FILE : 83-24-006_V-SP_PLAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                LAST UPDATED: 8/28/2025

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                         REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                            J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND OTHER RESERVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                            RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E D L             T                                                                                     392 E. Winchester St.                                                                                     PRELIMINARY                                  DRAWN BY: JRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A IDE SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2715 E 6200 S, HOLLADAY, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AGENCY




                                                                                                                                            PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT. ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESIGN BY: JRA
                                                                                                                                            AT CLIENT'S SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P                                                            PROVIDED                                                Suite 300                                                                                             PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                            REVISION                                                   S OV N P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHECKED BY: CONCEPT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P B TA C                                                 FOR SUB-CONSULTANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOGO AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NOT FOR                                                     ONE INCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 of 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SU S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ADDRESS INFOR                                               Phone: 801.886.9052                                                                         CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY                                                                 PRELIMINARY PLAT - EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FO                                                                                                                              www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                      NO.                         DESCRIPTION                                     BY APR.   DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HOLLADAY BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I-215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A PART OF THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SECTION 14, T2S, R1E, S.L.B.&M.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BIG COTTONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXIT 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BIG C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CO                          ROAD TONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 59'                                                                                                                         TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             253.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ng                                                                                                                                                                                                             OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rossi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       645.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C                                                                                                                                                                   I-215                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            e k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cre Private)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 75°59'00" E                               Lane                           E                                                                                               7' WIDE AREA TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '32"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    55.10'                                                   4°43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BE DEDICATED TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N 79°56'33" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14.15'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N7                                                                                                                HOLLADAY CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (0.10 acres)                    PROJECT VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   130.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N 24°13'00" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          134.81'               N 84°31'53"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16.84'         N 88°02'00" E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AS SURVEYED AREA TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N 5°39'00" E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ACRE                                         SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      41.54'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT #2                                                                                                                                                       HOLLADAY RD   0.10                                         4,508.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N 11°12'34" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.83'                                                                                                                   0.72 ACRES                                                                    LOT #9                                                                         BC CANYON RD 0.22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FIRE EASEMENT 0.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9,395
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4,520.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 89°59'12" E                                                286.12'                                                                                                                                                                                               0.73 ACRES                                                                     SUBDIVISION   11.00                                        479,160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL AREA = 11.42                                         497,584.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2715 E 6200 S, Holladay, UT 84121




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ETBA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 524.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REEK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               100' C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DEED AREA TABLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT #3                                                                                                                                                              PARCEL                       ACRE                          ZONE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2214351014                   4.29                          R-1-87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.88 ACRES                                                                                                                                                          2214352016                   3.52                          R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2214352006                   1.94                          R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROPOSED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2214352007                   1.72                          R-1-43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HOLLADAY BLVD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GARAGE PAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL AREA =                 11.47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VEHICLE BRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NO FIRE ACCESS                                                                            20' PRIVATE ROAD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAXIMUM DENSITY TABLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ZONE               DENSITY ACRES                                   UNITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT #4                                                                                                                                                 R-1-87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2/ACRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1/ACRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.82 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL UNITS =                              9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20' PRIVATE ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AREA TABULATION TABLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT #1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL PROPERTY AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SQ. FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      497,585
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        % OF TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.55 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOTAL BUILDABLE AREA   271,558                                                           58%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HOUSE PAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ' CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT #5                                                                   LOT #8                                                                        TOTAL BUILDING AREA*   64,700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA* 35,007
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EE                                                                                                                                                                         0.79 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ETB                                                                                        0.76 ACRES                                                                                                                                             TOTAL LANDSCAPED AREA* 397,878                                                           80%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOTAL ROAD AREA        53,925                                                            11%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *LOTS 2-9 APPROXIMATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT #6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.89 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 0°08'13" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     'P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIV
Date Created:8/28/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\SURVEY\DWG\83-24-006_V-SP_PLAT.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               POS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PRO SSORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 0°19'30" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ACC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S 89°51'47" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7.00'                                                            LEGEND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT #7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               32.05'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1°0                                                                                                                                                  S 0°08'13" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       West        79.00'                   13 8'24                                                                                                                                                  37.37'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        South                                 4.7 " W                                                              0.96 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                COMMON SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              West                                               3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              39.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIMITED COMMON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N 89°50'45" W                             245.01'
                                                                                                                                       BIG COTTONWOOD CANYON RD.                                                                                                                                              South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              17.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 89°59'36" W                                                             375.86'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDABLE AREA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40' WIDE AREA TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FIRE ACCESS EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BE DEDICATED TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HOLLADAY CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (0.22 acres)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0                50           100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Applicant/Designer                   Owner/Developer:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  J-U-B                               Doma Terra Holdings, LLC
Plot Date:8/28/2025 2:20 PM Plotted By: Jerron Atkin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  c/o Jerron Atkin, PLS & CFedS       9350 S. 150 East, Ste. 1000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  392 E. Winchester Street            Sandy, UT 84070                                   SCALE IN FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Salt Lake City, UT 84107            (801) 563-4179
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (801) 589-2229

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T                                                              J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FILE : 83-24-006_V-SP_PLAT                                                                                                                                                                                LAST UPDATED: 8/28/2025

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                         REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                            J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND OTHER RESERVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AN                                                                                                                                                                                                               JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                            RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E D L          T                                                                       392 E. Winchester St.                                                                                    PRELIMINARY                       DRAWN BY: JRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A IDE SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2715 E 6200 S, HOLLADAY, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AGENCY




                                                                                                                                            PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT. ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DESIGN BY: JRA
                                                                                                                                            AT CLIENT'S SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P                                              PROVIDED                                             Suite 300                                                                                            PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                           REVISION                                             S OV N P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHECKED BY: CONCEPT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P B TA C                                   FOR SUB-CONSULTANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOGO AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOT FOR                                          ONE INCH                                                                                                                                                                                            2 of 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SU S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ADDRESS INFOR                                            Phone: 801.886.9052                                                                        CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY                                                                  PRELIMINARY PLAT - NO CONTOURS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO                                                                                                             www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                      NO.                         DESCRIPTION                             BY APR.    DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HOLLADAY BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I-215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A PART OF THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SECTION 14, T2S, R1E, S.L.B.&M.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BIG COTTONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXIT 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BIG C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CO                          ROAD TONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     59'                                                                                                                       TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 253.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng                                                                                                                                                                                                           OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rossi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           645.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C                                                                                                                                                                 I-215                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Cre Private)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N 75°59'00" E                               Lane                           E                                                                                              7' WIDE AREA TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '32"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        55.10'                                                   4°43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BE DEDICATED TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 79°56'33" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14.15'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N7                                                                                                               HOLLADAY CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (0.10 acres)                   PROJECT VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       130.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N 24°13'00" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              134.81'               N 84°31'53"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16.84'         N 88°02'00" E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AS SURVEYED AREA TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N 5°39'00" E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ACRE                                         SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          41.54'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT #2                                                                                                                                                     HOLLADAY RD   0.10                                         4,508.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N 11°12'34" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.83'                                                                                                                   0.72 ACRES                                                                    LOT #9                                                                       BC CANYON RD 0.22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FIRE EASEMENT 0.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9,395
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4,520.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 89°59'12" E                                                    286.12'                                                                                                                                                                                               0.73 ACRES                                                                   SUBDIVISION   11.00                                        479,160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL AREA = 11.42                                         497,584.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2715 E 6200 S, Holladay, UT 84121




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ETBA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 524.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REEK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   100' C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DEED AREA TABLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT #3                                                                                                                                                            PARCEL                       ACRE                          ZONE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2214351014                   4.29                          R-1-87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.88 ACRES                                                                                                                                                        2214352016                   3.52                          R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2214352006                   1.94                          R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROPOSED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2214352007                   1.72                          R-1-43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HOLLADAY BLVD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GARAGE PAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL AREA =                 11.47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VEHICLE BRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NO FIRE ACCESS                                                                            20' PRIVATE ROAD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAXIMUM DENSITY TABLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ZONE               DENSITY ACRES                                   UNITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT #4                                                                                                                                               R-1-87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2/ACRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1/ACRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.82 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                  TOTAL UNITS =                              9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20' PRIVATE ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AREA TABULATION TABLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT #1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL PROPERTY AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SQ. FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        497,585
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          % OF TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.55 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL BUILDABLE AREA   271,558                                                           58%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HOUSE PAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ' CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT #5                                                                   LOT #8                                                                      TOTAL BUILDING AREA*   64,700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA* 35,007
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EE                                                                                                                                                                         0.79 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ETB                                                                                        0.76 ACRES                                                                                                                                           TOTAL LANDSCAPED AREA* 397,878                                                           80%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL ROAD AREA        53,925                                                            11%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    *LOTS 2-9 APPROXIMATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT #6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.89 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S 0°08'13" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     'P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIV
Date Created:8/28/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\SURVEY\DWG\83-24-006_V-SP_PLAT.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   POS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PRO SSORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 0°19'30" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ACC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S 89°51'47" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.00'                                                           LEGEND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT #7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   32.05'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1°0                                                                                                                                                  S 0°08'13" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           West        79.00'                   13 8'24                                                                                                                                                  37.37'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            South                                 4.7 " W                                                              0.96 ACRES                                                                                                                                                              COMMON SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  West                                               3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  39.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LIMITED COMMON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N 89°50'45" W                                 245.01'
                                                                                                                                      BIG COTTONWOOD CANYON RD.                                                                                                                                                   South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  17.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 89°59'36" W                                                             375.86'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUILDABLE AREA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40' WIDE AREA TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BE DEDICATED TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FIRE ACCESS EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HOLLADAY CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (0.22 acres)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                                                                    NOTE

                                                                                                                                                      1.    Buildings shown on the west side of Cottonwood Creek are
                                                                                                                                                            preliminary. Actual configuration may change.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0                50           100
                                                                                                                                                      2.    Buildings shown on the east side of Cottonwood Creek are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Applicant/Designer                   Owner/Developer:
                                                                                                                                                            conceptual and are shown for reference only. Actual building                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J-U-B                               Doma Terra Holdings, LLC
Plot Date:8/28/2025 2:22 PM Plotted By: Jerron Atkin




                                                                                                                                                            layout and configuration will be determined after recording of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c/o Jerron Atkin, PLS & CFedS       9350 S. 150 East, Ste. 1000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    392 E. Winchester Street            Sandy, UT 84070                                   SCALE IN FEET
                                                                                                                                                            this plat. All agency requirements will be met at that time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Salt Lake City, UT 84107            (801) 563-4179
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (801) 589-2229

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T                                                                  J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FILE : 83-24-006_V-SP_PLAT                                                                                                                                                                              LAST UPDATED: 8/28/2025

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                         REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                            J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND OTHER RESERVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                            RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E D L          T                                                                           392 E. Winchester St.                                                                                    PRELIMINARY                       DRAWN BY: JRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A IDE SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2715 E 6200 S, HOLLADAY, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AGENCY




                                                                                                                                            PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT. ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESIGN BY: JRA
                                                                                                                                            AT CLIENT'S SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P                                                     PROVIDED                                          Suite 300                                                                                            PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                           REVISION                                             S OV N P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CHECKED BY: CONCEPT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P B TA C                                          FOR SUB-CONSULTANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOGO AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NOT FOR                                          ONE INCH                                                                                                                                                                                          3 of 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SU S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ADDRESS INFOR                                         Phone: 801.886.9052                                                                        CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY                                                    PRELIMINARY PLAT - BUILDING REFERENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO                                                                                                                 www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                      NO.                         DESCRIPTION                             BY APR.    DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HOLLADAY BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I-215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONCEPT STANDARD SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A PART OF THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SECTION 14, T2S, R1E, S.L.B.&M.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BIG COTTONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXIT 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BIG C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO                          ROAD TONWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          59'                                                                                                                       TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      253.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng                                                                                                                                                                                                OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rossi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                645.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C                                                                                                                                                      I-215                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Cre Private)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N 75°59'00" E                      Lane                           E                                                                                   7' WIDE AREA TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '32"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 55.10'                                          4°43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BE DEDICATED TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N 79°56'33" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14.15'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N7                                                                                                   HOLLADAY CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (0.10 acres)                   PROJECT VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                130.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N 24°13'00" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         134.81'             N 84°31'53"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16.84'          N 88°02'00" E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AS SURVEYED AREA TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N 5°39'00" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    41.54'                                                                                            LOT #3                                                                                                                                                          HOLLADAY RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ACRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4,508.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N 11°12'34" W                                                                                          1.00 ACRES                                                                                                                                                      BC CANYON RD 0.22                                          9,395
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.83'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FIRE EASEMENT 0.10                                         4,520.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 89°59'12" E                                              286.12'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SUBDIVISION   11.00                                        479,160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL AREA = 11.42                                         497,584.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ACK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 524.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SETB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              100' C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REEK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT #4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DEED AREA TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.00 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARCEL                       ACRE                          ZONE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2214351014                   4.29                          R-1-87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2214352016                   3.52                          R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2214352006                   1.94                          R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT #2                                                                                                                            LOT #5                                                                                                                                                2214352007                   1.72                          R-1-43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HOLLADAY BLVD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL AREA =                 11.47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.07 ACRES                                                                                                                       1.00 ACRES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAXIMUM DENSITY TABLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ZONE               DENSITY ACRES                                   UNITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R-1-87             2/ACRE   4.29                                   2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT #6                                          )                                                                                                  R-1-43             1/ACRE   7.18                                   7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.03 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3                                                                                                                               TOTAL UNITS =                              9


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   )                                                                                                                                                 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7                                                                                                                                                 -                                                                                                                    AREA TABULATION TABLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8                                                                                                                                                1                                                                                                                                                  SQ. FT.                                                           % OF TOTAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -                                                                                                                                               -                                                                                                                                TOTAL PROPERTY AREA    497,585                                                           100%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1                                                                                                                                               R                                                                                                                                       TOTAL BUILDABLE AREA   271,558                                                           58%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                                                 100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ' CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (           LOT #7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL BUILDING AREA*   64,700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA* 35,007
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KS                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL LANDSCAPED AREA* 397,878                                                           80%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R                                                                     ETB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AC                                                                                       1.00 ACRES                                                                                                                   TOTAL ROAD AREA        53,925                                                            11%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (                                                                                  K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *LOTS 2-9 APPROXIMATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT #1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.00 ACRES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT #8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.00 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S 0°08'13" E
Date Created:8/28/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\SURVEY\DWG\83-24-006_V-SP_PLAT.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 0°19'30" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 89°51'47" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT #9                                      7.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              32.05'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1°0                                                                                      1.00 ACRES                            S 0°08'13" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      West        79.00'                   13 8'24                                                                                                                            37.37'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       South                                 4.7 " W                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMMON SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             West                                               3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             39.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIMITED COMMON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N 89°50'45" W                           245.01'
                                                                                                                                       BIG COTTONWOOD CANYON RD.                                                                                                                                             South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             17.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 89°59'36" W                                                 375.86'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUILDABLE AREA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40' WIDE AREA TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIRE ACCESS EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BE DEDICATED TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HOLLADAY CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.22 acres)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0                50           100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Applicant/Designer                   Owner/Developer:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         J-U-B                               Doma Terra Holdings, LLC
Plot Date:8/28/2025 2:23 PM Plotted By: Jerron Atkin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         c/o Jerron Atkin, PLS & CFedS       9350 S. 150 East, Ste. 1000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         392 E. Winchester Street            Sandy, UT 84070                                   SCALE IN FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Salt Lake City, UT 84107            (801) 563-4179
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (801) 589-2229

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T                                                              J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FILE : 83-24-006_V-SP_PLAT                                                                                                                                                                   LAST UPDATED: 8/28/2025

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                         REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                            J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND OTHER RESERVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AN                                                                                                                                                                                                   JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                            RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E D L          T                                                                      392 E. Winchester St.                                                                      PRELIMINARY                          DRAWN BY: JRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A IDE SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2715 E 6200 S, HOLLADAY, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AGENCY




                                                                                                                                            PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT. ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESIGN BY: JRA
                                                                                                                                            AT CLIENT'S SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P                                            PROVIDED                                              Suite 300                                                                              PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                           REVISION                                             S OV N P                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CHECKED BY: CONCEPT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P B TA C                                 FOR SUB-CONSULTANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOGO AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NOT FOR                                             ONE INCH                                                                                                                                                                               4 of 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SU S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ADDRESS INFOR                                             Phone: 801.886.9052                                                          CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY                             PRELIMINARY PLAT - CONCEPT STANDARD SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FO                                                                                                            www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                      NO.                         DESCRIPTION                             BY APR.    DATE
Plot Date:8/28/2025 2:39 PM Plotted By: Danny Fullmer
Date Created:6/12/2024 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\SURVEY\DWG\83-24-006_V-TI.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P (6)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O (7)




                                                                                                                                                                        Q (7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N (40)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  K (5)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L (5)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M (7)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               49.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70.74'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J (10)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2715 E 6200 S, Holladay, UT 84121




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    82.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I (6)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        82.70'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 72.63'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G (11)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        H (16)




                                                                                                                                                                                         72.87'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     219.14'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    210.47'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              196.17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                172.80'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       172.94'




                                                                                                                                                                                                  158.39'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A (22)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           94.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B (22)




                                                                                                                                                              160.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               201.77'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E (15)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             258.30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F (54)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D (8)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 76.76'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                64.54'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C (58)




                                                                                                                                                                                53.54'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          222.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A (X)




                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                   N



                                                                                                            40


                                                             SCALE IN FEET
                                                                                                            80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND                                                                                                                                        J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AMARE VITA                                            OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.                                                                                                                PRELIMINARY
                                                                               DESIGN BY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BLUE HORIZON                                           SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.                                                                                                                  PLANS                          Suite 300
                                                                                            DRAWN BY: JDF
                                                                               JDF
                                                          CHECKED BY: JRA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISION                                                                                                                                         Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                      FILE : 83-24-006_V-TI




                                                                    ONE INCH
                                                                                                            JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NOT FOR
           SHEET NUMBER:
                           LAST UPDATED: 8/28/2025




  TI-101




                                                                                                                                                                                                            TREE CANOPY SUSTAINABILITY PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONSTRUCTION                         Phone: 801.886.9052
                               AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.




                               INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NO.                               DESCRIPTION                                       BY APR.            DATE
Plot Date:8/28/2025 2:40 PM Plotted By: Danny Fullmer
Date Created:6/12/2024 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\SURVEY\DWG\83-24-006_V-TI.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                      REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                               J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND                     J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                               AMARE VITA      OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                               SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.       PRELIMINARY
                                                                               DESIGN BY:




                                                                                                                                                                               ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                              BLUE HORIZON     SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.         PLANS                Suite 300
                                                                                            DRAWN BY: JDF
                                                                               JDF
                                                          CHECKED BY: JRA




                                                                                                                                                                                                         REVISION                                               Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                      FILE : 83-24-006_V-TI




                                                                    ONE INCH
                                                                                                            JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOT FOR
           SHEET NUMBER:
                           LAST UPDATED: 8/28/2025




  TI-102




                                                                                                                                                              TREE INVENTORY                                                                    CONSTRUCTION       Phone: 801.886.9052
                               AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.




                               INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                               NO.              DESCRIPTION                BY APR.    DATE
                                                                                                                                        GENERAL NOTES                                                                                  GENERAL UTILITY NOTES                                                                                                                                                                                                LEGEND
                                                                                                                                        1.    ALL EXCESS MATERIALS SHALL BE REMOVED FROM THE SITE AND DISPOSED OF AT LOCATIONS         1.    ALL WORK AND MATERIALS SHALL BE IN COMPLETE ACCORDANCE WITH THE LATEST REVISION
                                                                                                                                              PROVIDED BY THE CONTRACTOR. DISPOSAL SITES SHALL BE IN COMPLIANCE WITH ALL                     OF CITY STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS, UDOT STANDARD SPECS, AND ALL OTHER                                                                                                                  EXISTING       PROPOSED                      EXISTING     PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                              FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL REGULATIONS.                                                          GOVERNING AGENCY'S STANDARDS.                                                                                                                                        SYMBOL              SYMBOL &        SYMBOL &      SYMBOL          SYMBOL &     SYMBOL &                    J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                        2.    AT COMPLETION OF PROJECT, CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY OWNER AND/OR OWNER'S                   2.    THE CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAIN AND HAVE AVAILABLE COPIES OF THE APPLICABLE                                                                                            DESCRIPTION          BLOCK NAME      BLOCK NAME   DESCRIPTION      BLOCK NAME   BLOCK NAME
                                                                                                                                              REPRESENTATIVE FOR FINAL PUNCHLIST WALKTHROUGH. FINAL PUNCHLIST ITEMS SHALL BE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GOVERNING AGENCY STANDARDS AT THE JOB SITE DURING THE RELATED CONSTRUCTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                              COMPLETED NO LATER THAN 3 WEEKS AFTER FINAL PUNCHLIST WALKTHROUGH.                             OPERATIONS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                        3.    PRIOR TO FINAL PROJECT ACCEPTANCE, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL CLEAN ALL UNDERGROUND            3.    THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR VERIFYING THE LOCATIONS, DIMENSION, AND                                                                                       BOLLARD                                          VAULT
                                                                                                                                              STRUCTURES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO MANHOLES, CATCH BASINS, SEWER PIPE AND                 DEPTH OF ALL EXISTING UTILITIES PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION WHETHER SHOWN ON THESE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                              STORM DRAINAGE. UNDERGROUND STRUCTURES SHALL BE CLEANED TO REMOVE ALL DEBRIS                   PLANS OR NOT. LOCATIONS OF SAID UTILITIES AS SHOWN ON THESE PLANS ARE BASED UPON
                                                                                                                                              AND/OR SEDIMENT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FIRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THE BEST RECORDS AVAILABLE AND ARE SUBJECT TO A DEGREE OF UNKNOWN VARIATION. IF                                                                                      FLAGPOLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Suite 300
                                                                                                                                        4.    CONTRACTOR SHALL USE "REQUEST FOR INFORMATION" PROCEDURE FOR REQUESTING                        CONFLICTS SHOULD OCCUR, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL CONSULT ENGINEER TO RESOLVE ALL                                                                                                                                          HYDRANT
                                                                                                                                              INFORMATION. RFI SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE OWNER AND/OR OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE.                PROBLEMS PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH CONSTRUCTION.
                                                                                                                                              NO PLAN CHANGES AND/OR CHANGE ORDERS WILL BE ACCEPTED UNLESS THEY ARE CLEARLY            4.    IT SHALL BE THE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY TO COORDINATE WITH AND CONTACT ALL OF                                                                                       MAIL                                           WATER
                                                                                                                                              DOCUMENTED.                                                                                    THE APPROPRIATE UTILITIES INVOLVED PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                               BOX                                            METER
                                                                                                                                        5.    CONTRACTOR SHALL SUBMIT SUBMITTALS AND SHOP DRAWINGS TO OWNER AND/OR OWNER'S             5.    IT SHALL BE THE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY TO COORDINATE AND CONTACT THE
                                                                                                                                              REPRESENTATIVE FOR APPROVAL OF ALL MATERIALS PRIOR TO INSTALLATION. CONTRACTOR                 INSPECTOR 24 HOURS IN ADVANCE OF BACKFILLING ALL CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                       IRRIGATION
                                                                                                                                              SHALL PROVIDE ADEQUATE TIME TO ALLOW FOR REVIEW/APPROVAL OF SUBMITTALS AND SHOP                                                                                                                                                                                        SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6.    THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR PROTECTION OF ALL EXISTING UTILITIES                                                                                                                                         VALVE BOX
                                                                                                                                              DRAWINGS.                                                                                      WITHIN THE CONSTRUCTION AREA WHETHER SHOWN OR NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
                                                                                                                                        6.    CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE ALL MEANS, METHODS, LABOR AND MATERIALS NECESSARY TO            7.    ALL SITE UTILITIES SHALL STOP AT 3-5' FROM BUILDING FACE. ALL UTILITIES SHALL BE CAPPED                                                                                 TREE
                                                                                                                                              CONSTRUCT THIS PROJECT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.                        AND MARKED AT SURFACE WITH DEPTH NOTED.                                                                                                                               (SHRUB)                                         CLEANOUT
                                                                                                                                        7.    CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE ALL CONSTRUCTION STAKING FOR VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL            8.    WHERE DIRECTED BY THE CITY THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PLACE TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES,
                                                                                                                                              CONTROL. ALL CONSTRUCTION STAKING SHALL BE COMPLETED UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF A                THE PLACEMENT AND TYPE OF WHICH SHALL CONFORM TO THE MANUAL OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC                                                                                         TREE
                                                                                                                                              P.L.S. LICENSED IN THE STATE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONTROL DEVICES (M.U.T.C.D.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (CONIFEROUS)                                        BASIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                        8.    WHERE SPECIFICATIONS CONFLICT, THE STRICTER SHALL OVERRULE.                              9.    ALL UTILITIES SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED PRIOR TO SURFACING INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                        9.    THE CONTRACTOR AND ALL SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL BE LICENSED BY THE STATE OF UTAH                  SEWER, WATER, TELEPHONE, POWER, AND CABLE TELEVISION.
                                                                                                                                              AND BONDED TO DO WORK IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TREE                                              ELEC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10.   ALL PAVEMENT CUTS TO CONNECT UTILITIES SHALL BE REPAIRED IN CONFORMANCE WITH THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                        10.   THE CONTRACTOR AND ALL SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL HAVE A CURRENT CITY OF HOLLADAY                   CITY AND TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                                                        (DECIDUOUS)                                         TRANS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PLANS
                                                                                                                                              BUSINESS LICENSE.                                                                        11.   CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR APPLYING FOR AND OBTAINING ALL PERMITS AND
                                                                                                                                        11.   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY AND ALL CONSTRUCTION DEFICIENCIES                  ASSOCIATED FEES EXCEPT FOR PLAN REVIEW.                                                                                                                                TELE.                                           POWER
                                                                                                                                              FOR A PERIOD OF 1-YEAR FROM THE DATE OF ACCEPTANCE BY THE CITY OF HOLLADAY AND           12.   CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE W/ ALL UTILITIES FOR TRENCHING REQUIREMENTS. UTILITY                                                                                     PEDESTAL                                           POLE
                                                                                                                                              THE OWNER.                                                                                     LOCATIONS SHOWN ARE FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY. CONTRACTOR SHALL
                                                                                                                                        14.   ANY CHANGES OR MODIFICATIONS TO THE PROJECT PLANS SHALL FIRST BE APPROVED BY THE               COORDINATE ACTUAL LOCATIONS WITH THE UTILITIES AT THE TIME OF CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                             GUY                                            STREET
                                                                                                                                              ENGINEER OF RECORD AND CITY ENGINEER OR HIS REPRESENTATIVE.                                    CONTRACTOR AND UTILITIES SHALL COORDINATE LOCATION OF EQUIPMENT TO AVOID                                                                                                WIRE                                            LIGHT
                                                                                                                                        15.   ALL WORK SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH CITY STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.                        CONFLICTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13.   CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE PRIVATE UTILITY WORK AND CONFORM TO THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REQUIREMENTS OF UTILITY COMPANIES. PROVIDE MIN. 48 HOURS NOTICE TO UTILITY                                                                                           MANHOLE                                            CAP

                                                                                                                                        CLEARING/GRUBBING NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMPANIES PRIOR TO UTILITY TRENCH EXCAVATION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VALVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.
                                                                                                                                        1.    CONTRACTOR SHALL PLACE TEMPORARY EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROLS PRIOR TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                              BEGINNING CLEARING AND GRUBBING.
                                                                                                                                         2.   VERIFY LIMITS OF SITE CLEARING PRIOR TO START OF WORK.                                         STORM DRAINAGE PIPING NOTES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BY APR.
                                                                                                                                         3.   PROTECT AND MAINTAIN BENCHMARKS AND SURVEY CONTROL POINTS FROM DISTURBANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.        INSTALL PIPE, FITTINGS AND ACCESORIES IN ACCORDANCE WITH CITY OF HOLLADAY
                                                                                                                                              DURING CONSTRUCTION.
                                                                                                                                         4.   LOCATE, IDENTIFY, DISCONNECT AND SEAL OR CAP OFF UTILITIES INDICATED TO BE REMOVED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. PERFORM WORK IN ACCORDANCE WITH ASTM, AASHTO AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOCAL GOVERNING PROCEDURE STANDARDS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LINE LEGEND
                                                                                                                                         5.   DO NOT INTERRUPT EXISTING UTILITY SERVICES UNLESS PERMITTED TO DO SO BY THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.        STORM PIPE: PVC PLASTIC PIPE ANSI/ASTM D3034, SDR 35.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                              GOVERNING JURISDICTION AND/OR UTILITY COMPANY.
                                                                                                                                         6.   REMOVE OBSTRUCTIONS, TREES, SHRUBS, GRASS OR OTHER VEGETATION TO PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.        BEDDING: GRAVEL BACKFILL FOR PIPE ZONE BEDDING MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF CITY                                                                                                           LINE                   PROPOSED                EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF HOLLADAY STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                                                                                                   DESCRIPTION                 LINE                    LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISION
                                                                                                                                              INSTALLATION OF NEW CONSTRUCTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.        BACKFILL AND COVER. AS NOTED IN THE TRENCHING/BACKFILL/COMPACTION NOTES.
                                                                                                                                         7.   REMOVE UNSUITABLE MATERIALS THAT ARE OBSTRUCTING CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                              HAVE NO GENERAL USE IN CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
                                                                                                                                         8.   IF ANY UNKNOWN SUBSURFACE STRUCTURES ARE ENCOUNTERED DURING CONSTRUCTION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OVERHEAD POWER                       OHP                  OHP

                                                                                                                                              THEY SHALL IMMEDIATELY BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE OWNER'S ENGINEER PRIOR

                                                                                                                                         9.
                                                                                                                                              TO PROCEEDING.
                                                                                                                                              THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROTECT ADJACENT PROPERTIES, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE, AT ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SITE WATER PIPING NOTES                                                                                                                                                                    UNDERGROUND POWER                     UP                   UP


                                                                                                                                              TIMES DURING CONSTRUCTION.                                                                     1.        INSTALL PIPE, FITTINGS AND ACCESORIES IN ACCORDANCE WITH CITY OF HOLLADAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. PERFORM WORK IN ACCORDANCE WITH ASTM, AASHTO AND                                                                                                        OVERHEAD TELEPHONE                   OHT                  OHT
                                                                                                                                        10.   FILL DEPRESSIONS CAUSED BY CLEARING/GRUBBING OPERATIONS WITH SATISFACTORY SOIL
                                                                                                                                              MATERIALS SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CITY OF HOLLADAY STANDARD                                      LOCAL GOVERNING PROCEDURE STANDARDS.
                                                                                                                                              SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                                2.        WATER PIPE: DUCTILE IRON THICKNESS CLASS 50. FITTINGS AND JOINTS TO BE IN ACCORDANCE                                                                                             UNDERGROUND TELEPHONE                 UT                       UT

                                                                                                                                        11.   STRIP SATISFACTORY TOPSOILS TO WHATEVER DEPTHS ARE ENCOUTERED IN A MANNER TO                             WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY.
                                                                                                                                              PREVENT INTERMINGLING WITH UNDERLYING SUBSOILS OR OTHER WASTE MATERIALS.                       3.        GATE VALVES: AWWA C509, RESILENT WEDGE TYPE MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CITY       ASPHALT PAVING NOTES                                                                      NATURAL GAS                           G                        G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NO.
                                                                                                                                        12.   STOCKPILE TOPSOILS ON-SITE FOR RE-USE IN LANDSCAPE AREAS. REMOVE EXCESS TOPSOILS                         OF HOLLADAY STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.   INSTALL WORK IN ACCORDANCE WITH UDOT STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS AND CITY OF
                                                                                                                                              FROM SITE IF NOT NEEDED FOR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.                                           4.        WATER SERVICES: MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY STANDARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HOLLADAY STANDARDS.                                                                  STORM DRAIN                          SD                    SD
                                                                                                                                        13.   REMOVE SURPLUS SOIL MATERIALS, UNSUITABLE TOPSOIL, OBSTRUCTIONS, AND WASTE                               SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.   DO NOT PLACE ASPHALT WHEN AMBIENT AIR OR BASE SURFACE TEMPERATURE IS LESS
                                                                                                                                              MATERIALS AND LEGALLY DISPOSE OF THEM OFF-SITE.                                                5.        FIRE HYDRANT ASSEMBLY: MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THAN IN ACCORDANCE WITH UDOT STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                        14.   UPON COMPLETION OF SITE WORK, CLEAN THE ENTIRE SITE WORK AREA. REMOVE ALL EXCESS                         STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                                                                                                         ROOF DRAIN                           RD                    RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.   PAVEMENT SECTION: AS SHOWN ON THE DRAWINGS.
                                                                                                                                              EXCAVATED SOIL MATERIALS, ROCKS, BOULDERS, LOGS, TREES, PIPES OR DEBRIS OF ANY                 6.        THRUST BLOCKS: MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY STANDARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.   VERIFY GRADIENTS AND ELEVATIONS OF BASE ARE CORRECT PRIOR TO PLACEMENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                              TYPE AND DISPOSE FROM THE SITE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.        BEDDING AND COVER MATERIALS: MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HMA.                                                                                 SANITARY SEWER                       SS                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.   SOIL STERILIZATION (WEED KILLER) SHALL BE APPLIED TO TOP OF ROCK IN AREAS TO BE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PAVED THE SAME DAY AS PAVING WORK. KEEP 2-FOOT MIN. CLEAR OF EXISTING AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.        REDUCED BACKFLOW PRESSURE ASSEMBLY: MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CITY OF                                                                                                      WATER                                 W                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED LANDSCAPE AREAS. APPLY AT MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDED RATE TO
                                                                                                                                        EARTHWORK NOTES                                                                                                HOLLADAY STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. PROVIDE ELECTRICAL POWER SOURCE FOR HEATING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ELEMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ASSURE 3-INCH MIN. PENETRATION.
Date Created:6/24/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_C-001.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.   COMPACT PAVEMENT BY ROLLING TO THE SPECIFIED DENSITY. HAND COMPACT AREAS             IRRIGATION                           IRR                   IRR
                                                                                                                                        1.    PERFORM WORK IN ACCORDANCE WITH ASTM AND AASHTO PROCEDURE STANDARDS.                           9.        POST INDICATOR VALVE: AS SHOWN ON THE DRAWINGS.
                                                                                                                                        2.    PRIOR TO THE START OF GRADING, ALL EXISTING ORIGINAL MATERIAL, DEBRIS, RUBBLE,                                                                                                                       INACCESSIBLE TO ROLLING EQUIPMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10.       FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION: AS SHOWN ON THE DRAWINGS.
                                                                                                                                              ASPHALT PAVEMENT, ETC., SHALL BE REMOVED FROM THE SITE TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE              11.       PROVIDE TESTING IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CITY OF HOLLADAY STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7.   TACK COAT CEMENT SURFACES THAT WILL BE IN CONTACT WITH PAVEMENT. PROTECT             PROPERTY LINE                        P/L                 P/L
                                                                                                                                              OWNER AND OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE.                                                                                                                                                                    CEMENT SURFACES FROM THE TACK APPLICATION METHOD. CLEAN EXCESS TACK FROM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TO INCLUDE BUT NOT LIMITED TO BACTERLOGICAL TEST, HYDROSTATIC TEST AND BACKFLOW
                                                                                                                                         3.   IF ANY UNKNOWN SUBSURFACE STRUCTURES ARE ENCOUNTERED DURING CONSTRUCTION,                                                                                                                            EXPOSED CONCRETE SURFACES. STORM PIPE: PVC PLASTIC PIPE ANSI/ASTM D3034, SDR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ASSEMBLY TEST.                                                                                                                                                                   RIGHT OF WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R/W                 R/W
                                                                                                                                              THEY SHALL IMMEDIATELY BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE OWNER'S ENGINEER PRIOR                                                                                                                     35. FITTINGS SHALL BE SAME MATERIAL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12.       DISINFECT AND FLUSH THE DOMESTIC WATER SYSTEM IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CITY OF
                                                                                                                                              TO PROCEEDING.                                                                                           HOLLADAY STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                         4.   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROTECT ADJACENT PROPERTIES, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE, AT ALL                   13.       CONTRACTOR INSTALLING FIRE LINES SHALL BE LICENSED BY THE STATE OF WA WITH A LEVEL                                                                                               PERMANENT EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                              TIMES DURING CONSTRUCTION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CIVIL NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3 OR U LICENSE. CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE LICENSE TO OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE PRIOR
                                                                                                                                         5.   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR IMPORTING AND/OR EXPORTING ALL MATERIAL                                                                                                                                                                                                           FENCE                                 X                    X
                                                                                                                                              AS REQUIRED TO PROPERLY GRADE THIS SITE TO THE FINISHED ELEVATIONS SHOWN HEREON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TO BEGINNING WORK.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MATERIAL TESTING
                                                                                                                                              IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE APPROVED PLANS.                                                                                                                                                          1.   CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE MATERIAL TESTING BY A CERTIFIED TESTING LABORATORY.         ROAD CENTERLINE
                                                                                                                                         6.   ALL FILL SHALL BE TESTED AND APPROVED BY THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER OF RECORD                                                                                                                         MATERIAL TEST REPORTS SHALL INCLUDE CLASSIFICATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ASTM D2487
                                                                                                                                              PRIOR TO PLACEMENT.                                                                                                                                                                                  OF EACH SOIL MATERIAL PROPOSED FOR FILL AND BACKFILL AND LABORATORY COMPACTION
                                                                                                                                         7.   ALL FILL MATERIAL SHALL BE PLACED IN LIFTS AND COMPACTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE                SITE LAYOUT NOTES                                                                                     CURVE ACCORDING TO ASTM D1557 FOR EACH SOIL MATERIAL PROPOSED FOR FILL AND           ROAD ASPHALT                         EP                   EP

                                                                                                                                              GEOTECHNICAL REPORT.                                                                           1.        ALL DIMENSIONS SHOWN ON THESE PLANS AND ANY EXISTING CONDITIONS SHALL BE CHECKED            BACKFILL.
                                                                                                                                         8.   ALL EXCAVATION SHALL BE CONSIDERED UNCLASSIFIED.                                                         AND VERIFIED IN THE FIELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION. ANY DISCREPANCY SHALL WARRANT         2.   CONTRACTOR SHALL ADHERE TO THE TESTING AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS AS NOTED IN       ROAD GRAVEL                          EG                   EG
                                                                                                                                         9.   THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE REQUIRED TO CALL 811 A MINIMUM OF TWO BUSINESS DAYS                              IMMEDIATE ATTENTION OF ENGINEER TO RESOLVE ALL PROBLEMS PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH            THE CITY PERMIT.
                                                                                                                                              PRIOR TO COMMENCING ANY EXCAVATION ACTIVITIES TO DETERMINE FIELD LOCATIONS OF ALL                        CONSTRUCTION                                                                           3.   CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE COMPACTION TESTING IN ACCORDANCE WITH ASTM D 1557,
                                                                                                                                              UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.                                                                         2.        ALL SIGNAGE AND STRIPING SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LATEST EDITION OF THE MUTCD        D2167, D2922 AND D 3017. FREQUENCY OF TESTING SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CITY
                                                                                                                                        10.   CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE MATERIAL TESTING AND FREQUENCY OF TESTING IN                                    AND THE STATE SIGN FABRICATION MANUAL.                                                      OF HOLLADAY STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                              ACCORDANCE WITH THE CITY OF HOLLADAY STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.                                  3.        CONCRETE MIX FOR CURBS AND SIDEWALKS SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CITY OF           4.   WHEN COMPACTION TEST FAILS, CONTRACTOR SHALL REWORK AND RETEST AT NO
                                                                                                                                        11.   CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL OFF-SITE CLEANUP OF ANY DISCHARGE OF                             HOLLADAY STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.                                                           ADDITIONAL COST TO OWNER.
                                                                                                                                              CONSTRUCTION RELATED STORMWATER AND SILT LADEN MATERIAL.                                       4.        PAINT FOR PAVEMENT MARKINGS SHALL BE EITHER LOW VOC SOLVENT BASED OR LOW VOC           5.   CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH THE COMPACTION
                                                                                                                                        12.   CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO PROVIDE TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION WATER FOR                              WATERBORNE MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF UDOT STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.                        TESTING REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                              DUST CONTROL AND FOR COMPACTION PURPOSES.
                                                                                                                                        13.   ALL DISTURBED AREAS SHALL BE HYDRO-SEEDED WITH A DRYLAND GRASS SEED MIX WITH
                                                                                                                                              TACKIFIER. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO RE-ESTABLISH VEGETATION ON ALL
                                                                                                                                              DISTURBED AREAS. CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE TEMPORARY WATER AS NECESSARY TO                           CEMENT CONCRETE NOTES                                                                            TRENCHING/BACKFILL/COMPACTION NOTES
                                                                                                                                              PROVIDE SEED GERMINATION. TACKIFIER SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH UDOT STD                            1.  PROVIDE 21" MASTIC EXPANSION JOINT WHEN CONCRETE PAVEMENT MEETS CURB OR FACE OF              1.   BACKFILL MATERIALS SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CITY OF HOLLADAY STANDARD
                                                                                                                                              SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                                         BUILDING. MASTIC SHALL EXTEND THE FULL DEPTH OF THE CONCRETE PAVEMENT.                            SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. CONCRETE PAVEMENT AND SIDEWALK SHALL HAVE A SMOOTH LIGHT BROOM FINISH.                        2.   ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS EXCAVATED FROM THE TRENCH SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. ALL JOINT PATTERNS SHALL CLOSELY FOLLOW THE PLAN LAYOUT.                                           UDOT STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. MATERIAL EXCEEDING THE OPTIMUM MOISTURE CONTENT
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:21 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. CEMENT CONCRETE PAVEMENT SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CURRENT EDITION OF THE                    SHALL BE CONSIDERED AS UNACCEPTABLE FOR BACKFILL WITHIN THE PIPE TRENCH ZONE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UDOT STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                3.   CONTRACTOR SHALL IMPORT BACKFILL MATERIAL AS NEEDED TO CONSTRUCT THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FILE : 83-24-006_C-001
                                                                                                                                        SANITARY SEWER PIPING NOTES                                                                               5. CONCRETE SHALL HAVE A 2 TO 4-INCH SLUMP BEFORE ADDING HIGH-RANGE WATER REDUCING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ADMIXTURE OR PLASTICIZING ADMIXTURE, ±1-INCH                                                 4.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IMPROVEMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LAY PIPES TO LINES AND GRADES INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS. NOTIFY THE ENGINEER OF                                                                      JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                        1.    INSTALL PIPE, FITTINGS AND ACCESORIES IN ACCORDANCE WITH CITY OF HOLLADAY                           6. 6.5 SACK MINIMUM SACK CONTENT                                                                      RECORD OF ANY DISCREPANCIES.
                                                                                                                                              STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. PERFORM WORK IN ACCORDANCE WITH ASTM, AASHTO AND                           7. MAXIMUM WATER/CEMENT RATIO: 0.45 (NON-AIR ENTRAINED) 0.35 (AIR ENTRAINED)                     5.   TRENCH EXCAVATION SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH UDOT STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                          DESIGN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                              LOCAL GOVERNING PROCEDURE STANDARDS.                                                                8. AIR-ENTRAINED: 5.5%, ±1.5% AT POINT OF DELIVERY FOR 1-1/2 INCH NOMINAL MAX. AGGREGATE         6.   SHORING SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH UDOT STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                                    CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                        2.    SEWER PIPE: PVC PLASTIC PIPE ANSI/ASTM D3034, SDR 35. FITTINGS SHALL BE SAME MATERIAL.                  SIZE. 6%, ±1.5% AT POINT OF DELIVERY FOR 1 TO 34" NOMINAL MAX. AGGREGATE SIZE.               7.   SHORING AND TRENCH SAFETY SYSTEMS SHALL MEET THE REQUIREMENTS OF UTAH STATE                                                                                   ONE INCH
                                                                                                                                        3.    BEDDING: GRAVEL BACKFILL FOR PIPE ZONE BEDDING MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF CITY                     9. USE OF ACCELERATING ADMIXTURES IN COLD WEATHER IS NOT ALLOWED UNLESS AUTHORIZED                    INDUSTRIAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT.                                                                                                                        AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                              OF HOLLADAY STANDARDS.                                                                                                                                                                               5.   TRENCH BACKFILL SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH UDOT STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                                INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BY ENGINEER IN WRITING.
                                                                                                                                        4.    BACKFILL AND COVER. AS NOTED IN THE TRENCHING/BACKFILL/COMPACTION NOTES.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LAST UPDATED: 6/25/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10. USE OF RETARDING ADMIXTURES IN HOT WEATHER IS NOT ALLOWED UNLESS AUTHORIZED BY               6.   REMOVE SURPLUS MATERIALS FROM THE SITE.
                                                                                                                                        5.    PROVIDE PRESSURE TEST, INFILTRATION TEST AND DEFLECTION TEST IN ACCORDANCE WITH                         ENGINEER IN WRITING.                                                                         7.   PROTECT OPEN TRENCH TO PREVENT DANGER TO THE PUBLIC.                                                                                                  SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                              UDOT STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                       11. CONTRACTOR SHALL APPLY CURING COMPOUND TO THE ENTIRE SURFACE AREA PER UDOT                   8.   PROVIDE ROCK AND UNSUITABLE EXCAVATION AS NEEDED TO CONSTRUCT UNDERGROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                          UTILITY IMPROVEMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C-002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0        40         80


                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCALE IN FEET                        J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                  Know what's below.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                     Call before you dig.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Suite 300
                                                                                                                                        CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CT L
                                                                                                                                         YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PR     OJE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INE
                                                                                                                                           MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CH L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAT
                                                                                                                                                       UTILITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONST. 8' FENCE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SEE DETAILS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONSTRUCT 3' SWALE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SEE CG-102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONSTRUCT 3' SWALE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SEE CG-10X SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOUSE                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SITE ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ASPHALT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-102

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONST. 6' FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ON 2' BERM,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEE DETAILS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONST. 8' FENCE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SEE DETAILS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20.00'                                                                                                                                                   SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R768.87'                                                                                                             ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CONSTRUCT 3' SWALE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SECTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HOLLADAY BLVD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEE CG-102

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FOR REFERENCE ONLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R3                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BY APR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               00                                                                              .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GARAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONST. 2-13' AUTOMATIC SWING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GATE WITH KEYPAD, MOTOR PAD,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AND SWING GATE OPERATOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R200.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       00
                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONST. 8' FENCE,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            SEE DETAILS                                                                                                                             CONSTRUCT 66'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BRIDGE. SEE XX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-103




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          POOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONSTRUCT 3' SWALE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EAST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEE CG-102                                                                                                                                                                HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-104
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FOR REFERENCE ONLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NO.
                                                                                                                                                                         MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R700.69'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-102




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MATCHLINE STA: X+00.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SEE SHEET -1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONST. 6' FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-101                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ON 2' BERM,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SEE DETAILS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20.00'
Date Created:6/26/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_C-101.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FOR REFERENCE ONLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OVERALL SITE AND UTILITY PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R125                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FOR REFERENCE ONLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-101

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-104
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0                                      0   0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0                                0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0'                         R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONSTRUCT 3' SWALE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEE CG-101
                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONST. 8' FENCE,                                                                  SHED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEE DETAILS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONST. 2-13' AUTOMATIC SWING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GATE WITH KEYPAD, MOTOR PAD,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AND SWING GATE OPERATOR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0   0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONST. 6' FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                   CONST. 6' FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ON 2' BERM,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SEE DETAILS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R3




                                                                                                                                                                       ON 2' BERM,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MATCH LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                      SEE DETAILS
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:32 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT LIMITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FILE : 83-24-006_C-101

                                                                                                                                                                                                              6200 SOUTH                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS                                                                                                                                                           DESIGN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOTES:                                                                                                ONE INCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.          ALL UTILITIES ARE TO BE PROTECTED IN PLACE                                        INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UNLESS CALLED OUT FOR REMOVAL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.         SEE C-20X SHEETS FOR INSTALLATION OF                                           SHEET NUMBER:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C-101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UTILITIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0             40       80


                                                                                                                                                DEMOLITION NOTES:                                                                                  EXISTING CONCRETE TO BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCALE IN FEET                        J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                        DM1      REMOVE EXISTING BUILDING                                                                          REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                        DM2      REMOVE EXISTING FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                        DM3      REMOVE EXISTING GATE                                                                              EXISTING ASPHALT TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BE REMOVED                                                                                                                                                                                         DM2
                                                                                                                                        DM4      REMOVE EXISTING WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DM8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Suite 300
                                                                                                                                        DM5      APPROXIMATE SAWCUT LIMITS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D5
                                                                                                                                                 REMOVE EXISTING TREE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIMI
                                                                                                                                        DM6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JE C T
                                                                                                                                        DM7      REMOVE EXISTING CURB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRO                      DM3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CH L
                                                                                                                                        DM8      REMOVE EXISTING MAILBOX                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PP1      POWER POLE
                                                                                                                                        DM9      COORDINATE REMOVAL OF WATER METER
                                                                                                                                                 WITH SALT LAKE CITY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DM2
                                                                                                                                                 UTILITIES (SLCDPU)                                                                  Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Call before you dig.                                                                                                                             DM2

                                                                                                                                        PP1      PROTECT IN PLACE EXISTING UTILITY                                        CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE                                                                                                                                                                                            DM4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                 STRUCTURE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE
                                                                                                                                        PP2      PROTECT IN PLACE EXISTING FENCE                                             MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER                                                                                                             DM1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLANS
                                                                                                                                        PP3      PROTECT IN PLACE EXISTING SIGN                                                          UTILITIES
                                                                                                                                        PP4      PROTECT IN PLACE HISTORICAL MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DM2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PP1        POWER POLE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DM7
                                                                                                                                                                                              DM2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PP1   SEWER MANHOLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DM7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DM2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BY APR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DM3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DM1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DM9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DM2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DM4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PP3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DM9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HOLLADAY BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   POWER POLE   PP1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DM1
                                                                                                                                                                  MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DM3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  POWER POLE    DM8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GUY WIRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DM2
Date Created:6/23/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_C-102.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                               DM2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DM9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DM8         POWER POLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DEMOLITION PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PP1            JUNCTION BOXES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DM3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BIG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DM2                                                              DM2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DM4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CS102

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CS103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DM3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PP1          POWER POLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PP1   SEWER MANHOLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DM1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PP3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                DM3

                                                                                                                                                                                              DM2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PP1     WATER VALVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PP1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DM4                          WATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                              DM4
                                                                                                                                              POWER POLE/   PP1                                                                             PP3
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:21 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                PEDESTAL                                                                                               PP4
                                                                                                                                                            PP3                                                                                                             MATCH LINE                                                                                                                                                                  DM3                                                                                                FILE : 83-24-006_C-102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT LIMITS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PP1   SEWER MANHOLE                                                                                                                                                                                         DM2                                                                                                                                        DRAWN BY: ###

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PP1    POWER POLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DESIGN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                        FIRE HYDRANT   PP1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                           AND VALVE                                                             6200 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                         MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SEWER   PP1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ONE INCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MANHOLE                           PP3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NOTES:                                                                                               LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                      PP1     WATER VALVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.   ALL UTILITIES ARE TO BE PROTECTED IN PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UNLESS CALLED OUT FOR REMOVAL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C-102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0         40        80


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SCALE IN FEET                        J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                    R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                  Know what's below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4535




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                                     Call before you dig.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Suite 300
                                                                                                                                        CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ITS                                     45
                                                                                                                                         YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JECT
                                                                                                                                           MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CH L
                                                                                                                                                       UTILITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    45



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4538




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   453




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRELIMINARY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HOUSE                                                                                                                                                4539




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4540
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4536                                                                                                           4   540                                                                                                     FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INSTALL SILT FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X 45INSTALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             37 SILT FENCE                                                                    CD50X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CD50X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4541




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4542




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.3%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   38




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BY APR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4543
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4542                                                                                         X       INSTALL STABILIZED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CD50X   ROADWAY ENTRANCE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GARAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4543                                                                                                                                                        4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HOLLADAY BLVD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4545




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WEST ROAD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4546
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4538
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4539




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4547
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4540                                                                                                                                                                                                                          POOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4541                                                                                                                       HOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     45
                                                                                                                                                                        MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4549




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   454


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HOUSE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4550




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EAST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            51
Date Created:6/20/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_C-103.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             45
                                                                                                                                                                                                    WEST ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4543                                                                                                                   HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FOR REFERENCE ONLY                                                                                                                           4552
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X                                                                                                                    47




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EROSION CONTROL PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INSTALL SILT FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CD50X                                                                                                                  45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4553



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSTALL SILT FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X                                                                                                                                                                   4554
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CD50X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4544                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HOUSE                             4555
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50                                                                          FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BIG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4545
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HOUSE             1                    %                                                                                                        5 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOR REFERENCE4ONLY   55                                                                                                                           45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4546

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5 2                                                                                                                           57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4547                                                                                                                                  45                                             W                                                                            45                           EROSION CONTROL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.   CONTRACTOR IS TO READ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     53                                                                                                             4558
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSTALL STABILIZEDX                                                                                                                                                                         45                                                                                                                                                         AND UNDERSTAND ALL BMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ROADWAY ENTRANCE CD50X   SHED                     4548                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PRACTICES PRIOR TO ANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4549                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4559                                      CONSTRUCTION ON THIS SITE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4550                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONTRACTOR IS TO FOLLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4551                                                                                                                                              54                                                                                                                                                 ALL BMP PRACTICES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4552                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONTAINED IN THESE PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4553                                                                                                                                                               HOUSE                                                                                   4560
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.   THE SITE IS TO BE WATERED
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:37 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MATCH LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AT LEAST TWICE A WEEK TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FILE : 83-24-006_C-103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT LIMITS                                                                                                                                     45                                                                                                                                               CONTROL DUST OR MORE          JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4561                                    FREQUENT AS DETERMINED        DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BY THE CONTRACTOR.            DESIGN BY: ###

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.   CONTRACTOR IS TO REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS                                                                                                                                                            ONE INCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6200 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INLET PROTECTION FROM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CATCH BASINS/INLETS AND           INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CLEAN OUT ALL CATCH           LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BASINS/INLETS BEFORE           SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DEMOBILIZING FROM THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SITE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C-103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         454                FL: 4539.84




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0                      20        40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4541                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCALE IN FEET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            K
                                                                                                                                                                      R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               454




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            42     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                    Know what's below.                                                                                   45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                       Call before you dig.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Suite 300
                                                                                                                                          CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE                                                                                                                                                                                                               MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-102
                                                                                                                                           YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4542
                                                                                                                                                                                   MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS
                                                                                                                                             MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45
                                                                                                                                                         UTILITIES                                                                             FL: 4541.59




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WEST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FL: 4542.45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4543




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PRELIMINARY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FF: 4543.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4543                                                                                                                                                                                                 44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONST. SWALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BY APR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R125




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TIE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BIG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4545




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TIE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   454                                                                                                                                                    4546

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FL: 4545.07

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           454




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4547




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6                                             FL: 4547.09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FL: 4546.04                  454

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-104
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T. SW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TO T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               454                                                                                                         4548




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TIE
Date Created:6/24/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_CG-101X.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FL: 4546.56




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FF: 4547.50                                                         4549




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             F BA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4550




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4551




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               %
                                                                                                                                                                                                               TB: 4546.80                                                                                                                    8                                                                                            8.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TB: 4549.25            TB: 4549.60                         4549                                        TB: 4550.90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R1                                                                                  4550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4549




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4553
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TB: 4553.41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TB: 4554.00



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6200 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X.X%                     GRADING SLOPE AND DIRECTION (DOWNHILL)
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:37 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FF                     FINISHED FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FILE : 83-24-006_CG-101X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FL                     FLOWLINE OF DITCH                                                     JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INV                    INVERT OF PIPE                                                        DESIGN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TB                     TOP OF BANK                                                                    ONE INCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4547                   EXISTING CONTOUR MINOR (4547.00)                                          INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4550                   EXISTING CONTOUR MAJOR (4550.00)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4547                   CONTOUR MINOR (FG) (4547.00)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4550                   CONTOUR MAJOR (FG) (4550.00)                                                     CG-101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                            20               40


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SCALE IN FEET                                     J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                      R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                    Know what's below.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                                       Call before you dig.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Suite 300
                                                                                                                                          CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0%
                                                                                                                                           YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE
                                                                                                                                             MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER
                                                                                                                                                         UTILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3                    7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              38




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4535
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4536                                                                                                        4536




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4537                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4538                                                0.7%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                FL: 4538.43                                                                                                                                                         FL: 4536.40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONST. SWALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4537




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BIG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4539




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BY APR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OP
                                                                                                                                                                                                          3:1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4541




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FF: 4540.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4541




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4541




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4540
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4539
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4538




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4540
Date Created:6/24/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_CG-101X.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ROAD                                                                                         FL: 4537.19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FL: 4537.47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WEST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4538




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R200.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4539
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FL: 4538.30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T. SW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4540
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NTO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       454            FL: 4539.84




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4541




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4 5 42     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      454




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FF: 4543.00                                                                                                                             4542




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4542
                                                                                                                                                                              MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X.X%               GRADING SLOPE AND DIRECTION (DOWNHILL)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    45
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:37 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FL: 4541.59                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FINISHED FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FF                                                                                                     FILE : 83-24-006_CG-101X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FL               FLOWLINE OF DITCH                                                                     JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INV              INVERT OF PIPE                                                                        DESIGN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TB               TOP OF BANK                                                                                    ONE INCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FL: 4542.45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4547             EXISTING CONTOUR MINOR (4547.00)                                                          INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4543                                  4550             EXISTING CONTOUR MAJOR (4550.00)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4547             CONTOUR MINOR (FG) (4547.00)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4550             CONTOUR MAJOR (FG) (4550.00)                                                                     CG-102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0        20         40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X.X%              GRADING SLOPE AND DIRECTION (DOWNHILL)
                                                                                                                                                                                      R


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FF               FINISHED FLOOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE IN FEET                        J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FL               FLOWLINE OF DITCH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                             Know what's below.                                                              INV              INVERT OF PIPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                                Call before you dig.                                                         TB               TOP OF BANK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                           CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4547             EXISTING CONTOUR MINOR (4547.00)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Suite 300
                                                                                                                                            YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE                                                              4550             EXISTING CONTOUR MAJOR (4550.00)
                                                                                                                                              MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER                                                                  4547             CONTOUR MINOR (FG) (4547.00)
                                                                                                                                                          UTILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4550             CONTOUR MAJOR (FG) (4550.00)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TB: 4537.09



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4537
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4538




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4539




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4 539         FL: 4539.05




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5%                            453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IMITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CT L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E   PRO                                                     T. SWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AT CH L                                                      CONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FL: 4538.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1:1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4540
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HOLLADAY BLVD.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BY APR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T. S  WAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C   ONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.0%                                                                            FL: 4537.56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     37                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4541




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EAST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          45                                                                                                                                          20.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4542




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NO.
                                                                                                                                                                TIE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       39




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.2%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     45
                                                                                                                                                                    INT
                                                                                                                                                                     OT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                      OP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R768.87'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4543
                                                                                                                                                                                                MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-102
                                                                                                                                                                          OF
Date Created:6/24/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_CG-101X.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                          BAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            45
                                                                                                                                                                           K
                                                                                                                                                 BIG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                  CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                                   TTO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4541
                                                                                                                                                        NW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4544
                                                                                                                                                        OO
                                                                                                                                                         DC
                                                                                                                                                             REE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R3
                                                                                                                                                                K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4542




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      454                                                           TB: 4547.98


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.9%   WEST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WEST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TB: 4547.98
                                                                                                                                                                                               TIE




                                                                                                                                            FL: 4537.19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    454
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I NTO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:37 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ' 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FILE : 83-24-006_CG-101X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DESIGN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4547                                                                                 CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4547                                              ONE INCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4547
                                                                                                                                          4539
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-104                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHEET NUMBER:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CG-103
                                                                                                                                                                                TIE




                                                                                                                                                 4540                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4548                                      4548




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CT LIMITS
                                                                                                                                                                                 INT
                                                                                                                                                                                  OT
                                                                                                                                                                                      OP
                                                                                                                                                                                          OF
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:37 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley
Date Created:6/24/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_CG-101X.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4539




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4543
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4547




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4547
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4540
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BIG                        OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CO                          NK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                  TIE                                                                                     EE
                                                                                                                                                                                            OP
                                                                                                                                                                                              TO T    IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                K
                                                                                                                                                                                   OF B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOP OF BANK
                                                                                                                                                                               ANK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UTILITIES


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INVERT OF PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FINISHED FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Know what's below.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Call before you dig.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TIE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FLOWLINE OF DITCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONTOUR MINOR (FG) (4547.00)
                                                                                                                                                                   MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-101




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONTOUR MAJOR (FG) (4550.00)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOP        O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING CONTOUR MINOR (4547.00)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     K


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXISTING CONTOUR MAJOR (4550.00)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X.X% 4542GRADING SLOPE AND DIRECTION (DOWNHILL)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     43

                                                                                                                                                                                                  4.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      %


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  46



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MATCH LINE SEE SHEET CG-103




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                49




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1 5



                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           %455
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    53




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R4




                                                                MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                            45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            54




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R700.69'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0'




                                                                                                                                                                                             45
                                                                                                                                                                                                 55




                                                                                                                                                                           4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EAST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                           55
                                                                                                                                                                              6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EAST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                  120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4547




                                                                                                                                                                  45
                                                                                                                                                                  57




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0'




                                                                                                                                                          45
                                                                                                                                                            85




                                                                                                                           45
                                                                                                                                             59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4547




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4548




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4549




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4550




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4551




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4552




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4553




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4554




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                               TB: 4562.06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HOLLADAY BLVD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45




                                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5




                                                                                                                                                                               4559
                                                                                                                                                                                                       8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4555




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4554
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   49




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4553
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4548
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4547
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SCALE IN FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                 AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.                                                    OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.                                                                              PRELIMINARY                                                                                                                                                                  392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.                                                                                PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                      BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                     DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                    DESIGN BY: ###




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Suite 300
                                                         CHECKED BY: ###




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                  ONE INCH
                                                                                                     JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOT FOR
          SHEET NUMBER:
                          LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025
                                                                                                                               FILE : 83-24-006_CG-101X




                                                                                                                                                                    GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN                                                                                                                                                                              CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                     Phone: 801.886.9052
 CG-104
                              AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.




                              INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NO.                         DESCRIPTION                      BY APR.   DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ipe


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  620
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ete
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ncr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Suite 300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     454




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  " Co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2        MA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TCH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    g8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                stin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Exi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JEC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONST. SEWER CLEANOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONST. SEWER CLEANOUT                                                               IMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PC: 101+9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HORZ 0            20             40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONST. WATER HYDRANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               102+00
                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONST. SEWER CLEANOUT                                                 AND VALVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               +5 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VERT 0          5                10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           102
                                                                                                                                                          CONNECT SEWER SERVICE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      101+00
                                                                                                                                                                  TO SEWER MAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCALE IN FEET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PT:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                CONST. 12"X12"X8" MJ TEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WEST R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20.00'
                                                                                                                                                  WITH THRUST BLOCKS
                                                                                                                                            100+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C-2 +00.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .53
                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONST. SWALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TCH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHE A. 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     103
                                                                                                                                                                               INSTALL 2" METER,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ET
                                                                                                                                                                            PROVIDED BY SLCPDU,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SEE NE ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JEC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PC:
                                                                                                                                                                                     AND VAULT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONST. 8" 90° HORIZONTAL                                                                     IMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TS             Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                        CONST. LEAK DETECTOR                                                                                                                                                              MJ TEE WITH THRUST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Call before you dig.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONST. 8" 22.5°
                                                                                                                                                                                       CHECK VALVE AND VAULT                                                                                                                                                              BLOCKS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HORIZONTAL MJ TEE WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THRUST BLOCKS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONST. SWALE                                                                                                                                                                                       MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BY APR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UTILITIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4541




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INSTALL SEWER SERVICE LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONNECTION TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING, SEE P SHEETS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WATER SERVICE LINE                               FIRE SERVICE CONNECTION,                                                                                                 PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEE PLUMBING SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                               409




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONNECTION TO BUILDING,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                              55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEE P SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                            45
                                                                                                                                                                                                            4




                                                                                                                                                         3/
                                                                                                                                                              4"
                                                                                                                                                                   St
                                                                                                                                                                     ee
                                                                                                                                                                        l




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NO.
                                                                                                                                         4555                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4555
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ELEV: 4547.86
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PVI:100+86.59
                                                                                                                                                                                   ELEV: 4547.76
                                                                                                                                                                                   PVI:100+37.19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                         4550                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FINISHED GRADE @ ROAD ℄
Date Created:6/24/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_C-201X.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.20%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING GRADE @ ROAD ℄




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PLAN AND PROFILE - WEST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -2.48%
                                                                                                                                         4545                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4545




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                         4540                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4540




                                                                                                                                         4535                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4535




                                                                                                                                         4530                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4530                                                  NOTES:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.     ALL UTILITIES ARE TO BE PROTECTED IN PLACE UNLESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CALLED OUT FOR REMOVAL.

                                                                                                                                         4525                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4525                                                       2.     CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                           100+00                                                  100+50                                            101+00                                101+50                                        102+00                               102+50                       103+00                                                                 ELEVATIONS AND INVERTS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND NOTIFY ENGINEER OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ANY DISCREPANCY.
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:37 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.     LOCATIONS OF THE EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FILE : 83-24-006_C-201X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ARE APPROXIMATE. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DETERMINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THE EXACT LOCATIONS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF        DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND AGREES TO BE FULLY      DESIGN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RESPONSIBLE SHOULD DAMAGES OCCUR DUE TO A           CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FAILURE TO LOCATE, INACTIVATE, ABANDON, OR                   ONE INCH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PRESERVE SAID UTILITIES.                                AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.     SEE SHEET C-102 FOR REMOVAL OF UNDERGROUND           SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UTILITIES.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C-201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GARAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FF: 4540.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45                                                                                                             J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 453
                                                                                                                                                                                                    IM
                                                                                                                                                                                                     L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                                                                                                  CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .72
                                                                                                                                                                                                JE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Suite 300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 453
                                                                                                                                                                                             O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4+20
                                                                                                                                                                                          PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        104+00
                                                                                                                                                                                         E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4540
                                                                                                                                                                                    LIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PT:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                 TC
                                                                                                                                                                               MA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HORZ 0             20          40

                                                                                                                                                                          PC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20.0
                                                                                                                                                                             :1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    105+
                                                                                                                                                                               03                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VERT 0           5             10
                                                                                                                                                                                   +4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0'
                                                                                                                                                                                     7.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SCALE IN FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                          3                            4541




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONST. SWALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              106+ ET C 6+50.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2                                                                                                      WES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   58.6 -203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       106+




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEE E STA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                                                                        CONST. SEWER CLEANOUT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PC : SH E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9             453




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   454                  453                                                                                                                   Know what's below.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0                   8
                                                                                                                                                               MA  S                                                                                                                                              454                                                                                                                                            Call before you dig.
                                                                                                                                                                 TC EE                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAT
                                                                                                                                                                   HL SH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S
                                                                                                                                                                     IN EE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4542




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND
                                                                                                                                                                       ES T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.
                                                                                                                                                                         TA C-2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7+




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                           . 1 01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          07
                                                                                                                                                                              03                                                      INSTALL SEWER SERVICE LINE                                                 4543                                                                                                                               MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BY APR.
                                                                                                                                                                                 +0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONNECTION TO
                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UTILITIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING, SEE P SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                         PT                                                                                                                                        HOUSE
                                                                                                                                              :1
                                                                                                                                                02                                                                                                                               FF: 4543.00
                                                                                                                                                   +5
                                                                                                                                                     4.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                           5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                         45                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   45                                       PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                            4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                               3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SECTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NO.
                                                                                                                                         4555                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4555


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LP STA: 104+80.68




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LP ELEV: 4538.37
                                                                                                                                         4550                                                                                                                           PVI STA:104+76.23                                                                                        4550
Date Created:6/24/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_C-201X.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PVI ELEV:4538.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K:9.84




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PLAN AND PROFILE - WEST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LVC:40.00

                                                                                                                                         4545                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4545
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BVCS: 104+56.23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BVCE: 4538.68




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EVCS: 104+96.23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EVCE: 4538.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                                                                                   FINISHED GRADE @ ROAD ℄

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING GRADE @ ROAD ℄
                                                                                                                                                                                                             -2.48%
                                                                                                                                         4540                                                                                                                                                                                           1.58%                                    4540




                                                                                                                                         4535                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4535



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NOTES:
                                                                                                                                         4530                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4530
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.   ALL UTILITIES ARE TO BE PROTECTED IN PLACE UNLESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CALLED OUT FOR REMOVAL.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.   CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                         4525                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4525
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELEVATIONS AND INVERTS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF
                                                                                                                                           103+00                                 103+50                              104+00                        104+50                                  105+00                           105+50                    106+00            106+50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND NOTIFY ENGINEER OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ANY DISCREPANCY.
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:37 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.   LOCATIONS OF THE EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ARE APPROXIMATE. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DETERMINE     FILE : 83-24-006_C-201X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THE EXACT LOCATIONS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF        JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND AGREES TO BE FULLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DESIGN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RESPONSIBLE SHOULD DAMAGES OCCUR DUE TO A           CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FAILURE TO LOCATE, INACTIVATE, ABANDON, OR                   ONE INCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PRESERVE SAID UTILITIES.                                AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.   SEE SHEET C-102 FOR REMOVAL OF UNDERGROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UTILITIES.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C-202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OP
                                                                                                                                                                                                       TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40
                                                                                                                                         45                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                           INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                              38                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  454




                                                                                                                                                                                                              OT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                OP
                                                                                                                                                                                                        453                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TTO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4541




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                           453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4543




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Suite 300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4542




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    39
                                                                                                                                                                     C-20 0.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HORZ 0            20             40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PT: 107+13.60
                                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                                       106+
                                                                                                                                                                          2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        45
                                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                         +58.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4544




                                                                                                                                                                                                       107+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MATCHLINE STA. 110+00.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VERT 0          5                10
                                                                                                                                                                   A .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           108+00
                                                                                                                                                                   T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4541
                                                                                                                                                                 T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4543
                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE IN FEET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  109+00
                                                                                                                                                               S



                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                               E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4542
                                                                                                                                                                                     1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEE SHEET C-204




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                          LINE
                                                                                                                                                            SH




                                                                                                                                                                                 PC:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONST. 66' LONG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WEST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                       SEE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BRIDGE. SEE SHEET.
                                                                                                                                                         H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20.00'
                                                                                                                                                       C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PLANS
                                                                                                                                                   MA T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Know what's below.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONST. SWALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Call before you dig.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4545




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4539




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ANK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BY APR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UTILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4546




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TIE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PAVEMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FOR REFERENCE ONLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SECTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NO.
                                                                                                                                                             4555                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4555




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                             4550                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ELEV: 4542.32
Date Created:6/24/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_C-201X.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PVI:107+38.71




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ELEV: 4542.35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PVI:107+97.96




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING GRADE @ ROAD ℄




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLAN AND PROFILE - WEST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FINISHED GRADE @ ROAD ℄
                                                                                                                                                             4545                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4545




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.92%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.04%
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.58%

                                                                                                                                                             4540                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4540
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONST. CONTECH O-1266T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BRIDGE. SEE SHEET




                                                                                                                                                             4535                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4535




                                                                                                                                                             4530                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4530
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NOTES:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.   ALL UTILITIES ARE TO BE PROTECTED IN PLACE UNLESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CALLED OUT FOR REMOVAL.
                                                                                                                                                             4525                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4525
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.   CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                               106+50                                107+00                                                      107+50                              108+00                                         108+50                      109+00                             109+50           110+00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ELEVATIONS AND INVERTS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND NOTIFY ENGINEER OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ANY DISCREPANCY.
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:38 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.   LOCATIONS OF THE EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES     FILE : 83-24-006_C-201X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ARE APPROXIMATE. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DETERMINE     DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THE EXACT LOCATIONS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF        DESIGN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND AGREES TO BE FULLY      CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RESPONSIBLE SHOULD DAMAGES OCCUR DUE TO A                    ONE INCH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FAILURE TO LOCATE, INACTIVATE, ABANDON, OR              AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PRESERVE SAID UTILITIES.                            LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.   SEE SHEET C-102 FOR REMOVAL OF UNDERGROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UTILITIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C-203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           454                                                                                         4543

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Exist. 3/4" Steel (approx.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                             HOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4544                                                                                                                                N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                                     FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4543




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Suite 300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HOLLADAY BLVD.
                                                                                                                                         4542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SEE SHEET C-205 FOR UTILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CALLOUTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W                                                                                                                                                                               HORZ 0             20          40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  454                                                                  454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5




                                                                                                                                                                                                MATCHLINE STA. 110+00.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VERT 0           5             10
                                                                                                                                                      4543                                                                                                           202+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   112+21
                                                                                                                                            109+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       112+00
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SEE SHEET C-203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCALE IN FEET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    111+00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WEST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                     20.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4545                                                                                                                                                                                                         Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Call before you dig.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EAST ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.
                                                                                                                                                                              45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             POOL                                                                                               MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BY APR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4546                                                                           FOR REFERENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UTILITIES

                                                                                                                                                                              HOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                           45
                                                                                                                                                                                           45




                                                                                                                                                                      FOR REFERENCE ONLY                                                                                     SEE SHEET C-205 FOR UTILITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CALLOUTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4547




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                4555                                                                                                                                                            4555




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ELEV: 4546.30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PVI:112+20.90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ELEV: 4545.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PVI:110+99.53




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                                                                4550                                                                                                                                                            4550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING GRADE @ ROAD ℄
Date Created:6/24/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_C-201X.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FINISHED GRADE @ ROAD ℄




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PLAN AND PROFILE - WEST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.97%
                                                                                                                                                                                                4545                          0.92%                                                                                                                             4545




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                                                                                4540                                                                                                                                                            4540




                                                                                                                                                                                                4535                                                                                                                                                            4535




                                                                                                                                                                                                4530                                                                                                                                                            4530                                                NOTES:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.   ALL UTILITIES ARE TO BE PROTECTED IN PLACE UNLESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CALLED OUT FOR REMOVAL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                4525                                                                                                                                                    4525                                                         2.   CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                  110+00                     110+50                      111+00                                          111+50                       112+00       112+25                                                                 ELEVATIONS AND INVERTS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND NOTIFY ENGINEER OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ANY DISCREPANCY.
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:38 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.   LOCATIONS OF THE EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES     FILE : 83-24-006_C-201X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ARE APPROXIMATE. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DETERMINE     JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THE EXACT LOCATIONS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF        DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESIGN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND AGREES TO BE FULLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RESPONSIBLE SHOULD DAMAGES OCCUR DUE TO A                    ONE INCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FAILURE TO LOCATE, INACTIVATE, ABANDON, OR              AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRESERVE SAID UTILITIES.                                INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.   SEE SHEET C-102 FOR REMOVAL OF UNDERGROUND           SHEET NUMBER:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C-204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UTILITIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                         8" PV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               112+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                          4540
                                                                                                                                                                        CONST. 185.76 LF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4541
                                                                                                                                                                                                          07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                  EET C-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                    LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4542




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ENCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                              MATCH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4543
                                                                                                                                                                                            SEE SH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FOR REFERENCE ONLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4544




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               POOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FOR REFER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Suite 300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4545
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONST. 12" 22.5° HORIZONTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MJ TEE WITH THRUST BLOCKS
                                                                                                                                                              ITS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INSTALL X" WATER                                                                                                 HORZ 0             20          40
                                                                                                                                                       CT LIM




                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONST. 12" 22.5° HORIZONTAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                 200+0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONST. 12" 22.5° HORIZONTAL                                                                                                                                                                    LATERAL AND MARKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MJ TEE WITH THRUST BLOCKS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MJ TEE WITH THRUST BLOCKS               INSTALL X" WATER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MATCHLINE STA. 203+09.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LATERAL AND MARKER                                       INSTALL 4" SEWER                                                                                                       INSTALL 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VERT 0           5             10
                                                                                                                                                     E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LATERAL AND MARKER                                                                                                     SEWER LATERAL
                                                                                                                                                   J




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AND MARKER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    201+00
                                                                                                                                                 O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SCALE IN FEET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   202+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEE SHEET C-206
                                                                                                                                               R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                    SSMH-E4
                                                                                                                                         LINE P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                    300+00                                       CONST. 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.41 LF 8" P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VC @ 3.58%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SSMH-E3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SSMH-E2
                                                                                                                                                       MATCH




                                                                                                                                                                                    120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONST. 69.50 LF 8" 111+00                                                                                                                                           EAST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EAST ROAD                                 PVC @ 3.70%                                                                                                                                                    CONST. 247.52 LF 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PVC @ 3.83%                                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INSTALL X" WATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LATERAL AND MARKER                                                                                                                                                                                                        INSTALL 4" SEWER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INSTALL 4" SEWER                                                                                       INSTALL X" WATER                                   LATERAL AND MARKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LATERAL AND                             CONST. FIRE                                             LATERAL AND MARKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HYDRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                        Know what's below.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MARKER (2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ASSEMBLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Call before you dig.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WEST ROA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INSTALL X" WATER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LATERAL AND MARKER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4549




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4548




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4544




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4547
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4543
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4541
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BY APR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               4539




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     454




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4546
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UTILITIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4545




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REUSE OF DRAWINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                           4555                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4555




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
Date Created:6/24/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_C-201X.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ELEV: 4545.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PVI:202+14.36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PLAN AND PROFILE - EAST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                           4550                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4550




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ELEV: 4540.55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PVI:200+45.52




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING GRADE @ ROAD ℄                                                     3.32%

                                                                                                                                                                                           4545                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4545
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FINISHED GRADE @ ROAD ℄
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.71%                                                                                                                                     " PVC              @ 3.83%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            . 247    .52 LF 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONST

                                                                                                                                                                                           4540                                                                                                                                                                     " PVC       @ 3.70%                                                                                          4540
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9       .50 LF 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONST. 6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8%                                                                           SSMH-E2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L F 8 " P VC @ 3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1                                                                                       STA: 202+18.67, 5.00' R
                                                                                                                                                                                           4535                                                   CON     ST. 148.4                                               SSMH-E3                                                                                                                                                        4535
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIM:4544.94                                                                                                                                                    NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STA: 201+49.56, 5.30' R                                   INV IN: 4540.68 8" (S)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIM:4543.26                                  INV OUT: 4540.58 8" (N)                                                                                                                                                    1.   ALL UTILITIES ARE TO BE PROTECTED IN PLACE UNLESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INV IN: 4538.01 8" (S)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CALLED OUT FOR REMOVAL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INV OUT: 4537.91 8" (N)
                                                                                                                                                                                           4530                SSMH-E4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4530
                                                                                                                                                                                                               STA: 200+02.17, 8.24' R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.   CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIM:4538.96                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ELEVATIONS AND INVERTS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                               INV IN: 4532.60 8" (S)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND NOTIFY ENGINEER OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                               INV OUT: 4532.50 8" (E)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ANY DISCREPANCY.
                                                                                                                                                                                           4525                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4525
                                                                                                                                                                                             200+00                                          200+50                                      201+00                                   201+50                                     202+00                                    202+50                                            203+00                                                        3.   LOCATIONS OF THE EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:38 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ARE APPROXIMATE. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DETERMINE     FILE : 83-24-006_C-201X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THE EXACT LOCATIONS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF        JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND AGREES TO BE FULLY      DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RESPONSIBLE SHOULD DAMAGES OCCUR DUE TO A           DESIGN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FAILURE TO LOCATE, INACTIVATE, ABANDON, OR          CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ONE INCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PRESERVE SAID UTILITIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.   SEE SHEET C-102 FOR REMOVAL OF UNDERGROUND          LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UTILITIES.                                           SHEET NUMBER:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C-205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Existing 10" Vitrified Clay Pipe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONST. 12"X12"X12" MJ TEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HOLLADAY BLVD.                                                                                   WITH THRUST BLOCKS                                                                                                                                                             J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                     MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Suite 300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HORZ 0            20           40


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VERT 0          5              10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCALE IN FEET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PRELIMINARY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                         FOR REFERENCE ONLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FOR REFERENCE ONLY                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                      POOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSTALL X" WATER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LATERAL AND MARKER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONST. 12" 22.5° HORIZONTAL MJ                                                                                                                                                            Call before you dig.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TEE WITH THRUST BLOCKS (2)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Exist. 3/4" Plastic (approx.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                58




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        57




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INSTALL 4" SEWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                   . 203+09.60




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LATERAL AND MARKER                                                                                                                                           INSTALL X" WATER                                                                              MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BY APR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 204+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           205+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             205+44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LATERAL AND MARKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UTILITIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        56
                                                                                                                                                                                        SEE SHEET C-205




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        45
                                                                                                                                                                                     MATCHLINE STA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SSMH-E1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EAST ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          54




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONST. 247.52 LF 8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PVC @ 3.83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                         SSMH-E2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSTALL 4" SEWER                                                  INSTALL 4" SEWER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LATERAL AND MARKER                                                LATERAL AND MARKER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONST. FIRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INSTALL 4" SEWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 45

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSTALL X" WATER                                                        INSTALL X" WATER            HYDRANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LATERAL AND MARKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LATERAL AND MARKER                                                      LATERAL AND MARKER         ASSEMBLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 454




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NO.
                                                                                                                                                                              4547




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FOR REFERENCE ONLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MATCH LINE PROJECT LIMITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                       4546
                                                                                                                                               4545




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
Date Created:6/24/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_C-201X.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLAN AND PROFILE - EAST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                                                                            4565                                                                                                                                                                                             4565

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4545


                                                                                                                                                                                            4560                                                                                                                                                                                             4560

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXISTING GRADE @ ROAD ℄                                                                                                                                4540
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FINISHED GRADE @ ROAD ℄
                                                                                                                                                                                            4555                                                                                                                                                                                             4555

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4535
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.32%
                                                                                                                                                                                            4550                                                                                                                                                                                             4550                                                                                                                     1.   ALL UTILITIES ARE TO BE PROTECTED IN PLACE UNLESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CALLED OUT FOR REMOVAL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4530
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.   CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C@3   .83%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7.52      LF 8" PV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ELEVATIONS AND INVERTS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             . 24
                                                                                                                                                                                            4545                       CONST                                                                                                                                                                 4545                                                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND NOTIFY ENGINEER OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SSMH-E1                                                                                                                                                                              ANY DISCREPANCY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STA: 204+67.20, 5.00' R                                                                                                                                                  4525
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIM:4553.40                                                                                                                                                                        3.   LOCATIONS OF THE EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:38 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INV OUT: 4550.14 8" (N)                                                                                                                                                                           ARE APPROXIMATE. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DETERMINE     FILE : 83-24-006_C-201X
                                                                                                                                                                                            4540                                                                                                                                                                                             4540                                                                                                                          THE EXACT LOCATIONS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF        JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND AGREES TO BE FULLY      DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4520
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RESPONSIBLE SHOULD DAMAGES OCCUR DUE TO A           DESIGN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FAILURE TO LOCATE, INACTIVATE, ABANDON, OR                   ONE INCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRESERVE SAID UTILITIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                            4535                                                                                                                                                                                             4535                                                                                                                                                                                  AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4515                4.   SEE SHEET C-102 FOR REMOVAL OF UNDERGROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UTILITIES.                                           SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    299+75

                                                                                                                                                                                            4530                                                                                                                                                                                        4530                                                                                                                                                                                                          C-206
                                                                                                                                                                                              203+00                                                             203+50                                    204+00                         204+50                                    205+00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HOLLADAY BLVD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Phone: 801.886.9052
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Suite 300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4536




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         301+86
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HORZ 0             20          40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4537                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4538
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4539
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     45399                                                                                              SSMH-E-H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TS                                                    453                                                                                                                                     VERT 0           5             10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    301+00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CT LIMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JE                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SCALE IN FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                         PRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONST. 12" 45° HORIZONTAL
                                                                                                                                                                               E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                         H LIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MJ TEE WITH THRUST BLOCKS
                                                                                                                                                                      TC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                   MA                                                                                                                          1.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8 " PVC @




                                                                                                                                                                              300+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Existing 10" Vitrified Clay Pipe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        . 185.76
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SSMH-E4
                                                                                                                                                                    120.00'                                            200+00                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MATCHLINE                                     4540
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SEE SHEET C-205




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EAST ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Call before you dig.




                                                                                                                                                                                CONST. 148.41 LF 8" PVC @ 3.58%
                                                                                                                                            9
                                                                                                                                         453




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONST. 164.23 LF 10" PVC @ 3.06%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CALL 2 BUSINESS DAYS IN ADVANCE BEFORE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          YOU DIG, GRADE, OR EXCAVATE FOR THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MARKING OF UNDERGROUND MEMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BY APR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UTILITIES


                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                           454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4541




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                    1                                 20.00'
                                                                                                                                                454                                                                                                                 4542




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.
                                                                                                                                                        4545                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4545
Date Created:6/24/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_C-201X.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PLAN AND PROFILE - SEWER TIE-IN
                                                                                                                                                        4540                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4540




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                                                                                        4535                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4535


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONST. 185.76 LF 8" PVC @
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PVC Pipe
                                                                                                                                                        4530                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4530
                                                                                                                                                                                                       SSMH-E4
                                                                                                                                                                                                       STA: 200+02.17, 8.24' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIM:4538.96                                                                                                                                                                                                NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                       INV IN: 4532.60 8" (S)
                                                                                                                                                        4525                                           INV OUT: 4532.50 8" (E)                                                                                                                                                                             4525
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.   ALL UTILITIES ARE TO BE PROTECTED IN PLACE UNLESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CALLED OUT FOR REMOVAL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SSMH-E-H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.   CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                        4520                                                                                                                                               STA: 301+85.85, 0.00'                                                                           4520         ELEVATIONS AND INVERTS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RIM:4537.85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INV IN: 4524.33 10" (S)                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND NOTIFY ENGINEER OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INV IN: 4530.64 8" (W)                                                                                        ANY DISCREPANCY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INV OUT: 4524.23 10" (N)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.   LOCATIONS OF THE EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:38 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley




                                                                                                                                                        4515                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4515         ARE APPROXIMATE. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DETERMINE     FILE : 83-24-006_C-201X
                                                                                                                                                          299+75          300+00                                                             300+50                                301+00               301+50                                                                                         302+00           THE EXACT LOCATIONS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF        JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND AGREES TO BE FULLY      DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RESPONSIBLE SHOULD DAMAGES OCCUR DUE TO A           DESIGN BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FAILURE TO LOCATE, INACTIVATE, ABANDON, OR          CHECKED BY: ###
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ONE INCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PRESERVE SAID UTILITIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.   SEE SHEET C-102 FOR REMOVAL OF UNDERGROUND          LAST UPDATED: 6/26/2025

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UTILITIES.                                           SHEET NUMBER:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C-207
Plot Date:6/26/2025 2:22 PM Plotted By: Daniel Netzley
Date Created:6/20/2025 \\JUB.COM\CENTRAL\CLIENTS\UT\BLUEHORIZON\83-24-006_HOLLADAYPROPPLANPHASE2\DESIGN\CAD\SHEET\83-24-006_C-501X.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLACEHOLDER FOR THIS SUBMITTAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                         REUSE OF DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                  J-U-B SHALL RETAIN ALL COMMON LAW, STATUTORY, COPYRIGHT AND                                              J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
                                                                                                                                                  AMARE VITA SUBDIVISION P.U.D.   OTHER RESERVED RIGHTS OF THESE DRAWINGS, AND THE SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                  SHALL NOT BE REUSED WITHOUT J-U-B'S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.                                PRELIMINARY      392 E. Winchester St.
                                                                                                                                                                                  ANY REUSE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT BY J-U-B WILL BE AT CLIENT'S
                                                                                                                                                                                  SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPOSURE TO J-U-B.                                  PLANS
                                                                                                                                                       BLUE HORIZON
                                                                                              DRAWN BY: ###
                                                                             DESIGN BY: ###




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Suite 300
                                                         CHECKED BY: ###




                                                                                                                                                                                                            REVISION                                                                        Salt Lake City, UT 84107
                                                                  ONE INCH
                                                                                              JUB PROJ. # : 83-24-006
                                                                                                                        FILE : 83-24-006_C-501X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NOT FOR
          SHEET NUMBER:
                          LAST UPDATED: 6/24/2025




 C-501




                                                                                                                                                          CIVIL DETAILS                                                                                                     CONSTRUCTION       Phone: 801.886.9052
                              AT FULL SIZE, IF NOT ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.




                              INCH, SCALE ACCORDINGLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  www.jub.com
                                                                                                                                                                                  NO.             DESCRIPTION                 BY APR.    DATE
July 24, 2024
Job No. 3054-004-24

Mr. Jerron Atkin
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
392 East Winchester Street
Salt Lake City, Utah

Mr. Atkin:

Re:     Report
        Geotechnical Study
        Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
        6178 Holladay Boulevard
        Holladay, Utah


1.      INTRODUCTION

1.1     GENERAL

This report presents the results of our geotechnical study performed at the site of the proposed
Amare Vita Subdivision to be located at 6178 Holladay Boulevard in Holladay, Utah. GSH
Geotechnical, Inc. completed a geotechnical study for the western portion of the site dated April
29, 2021 1.

The general location of the site with respect to existing roadways, as of 2024, is presented on
Figure 1, Vicinity Map. A more detailed layout of the site showing proposed facilities, existing
roadways, and the test pits excavated in conjunction with the referenced geotechnical study as well
as this study is presented on Figure 2, Site Plan.

1.2     OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE

The objectives and scope of the study were planned in discussions between Mr. Jerron Atkin of J-
U-B Engineers and Mr. Robert Gifford of GSH Geotechnical, Inc. (GSH).




1
 “Report, Geotechnical Study, Proposed Single-Family Residential Structure, 2715 East 6200 South, Holladay, Utah.”
GSH Job No. 3293-001-21.


GSH Geotechnical, Inc.
473 West 4800 South
Salt Lake City, Utah 84123
Tel: 801.685.9190 Fax: 801.685.2990
www.gshgeo.com
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



In general, the objectives of this study were to:

        1.      Define and evaluate the subsurface soil and groundwater conditions across the site.

        2.      Provide appropriate foundation, earthwork, pavement, and geoseismic
                recommendations to be utilized in the design and construction of the proposed
                facilities.

In accomplishing these objectives, our scope has included the following:

        1.      A field program consisting of the excavating, logging, and sampling of 4 additional
                exploration test pits.

        2.      A laboratory testing program.

        3.      An office program consisting of the correlation of available data, engineering
                analysis, and the preparation of this summary report.

1.3     AUTHORIZATION

Authorization was provided by returning a signed copy of the Professional Services Agreement
No. 24-0339 dated March 19, 2024.

1.4     PROFESSIONAL STATEMENTS

Supporting data upon which our recommendations are based are presented in subsequent sections
of this report. Recommendations presented herein are governed by the physical properties of the
soils encountered in the exploration test pits, projected groundwater conditions, and the layout and
design data discussed in Section 2, Proposed Construction. If subsurface conditions other than
those described in this report are encountered and/or if design and layout changes are implemented,
GSH must be informed so that our recommendations can be reviewed and amended, if necessary.

Our professional services have been performed, our findings developed, and our recommendations
prepared in accordance with generally accepted engineering principles and practices in this area at
this time.

2.      PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION

The approximately 9-acre site is proposed to be developed for the construction of an 8-lot
residential subdivision. The single-family residential structures are anticipated to be 2 to 3 stories
above grade with full or partial depth basements supported upon conventional spread and
continuous wall foundations. Additionally, a private bridge is proposed to cross the creek onsite.




                                                                                                Page 2
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



Maximum real column and wall loads are anticipated to be on the order of up to 80 kips and up to
4 kips per lineal foot, respectively. Real loads are defined as the total of all dead plus frequently
applied (reduced) live loads.

Paved residential roadways are planned to service the subdivision. Projected traffic in the
residential roadways is anticipated to consist of a light to moderate volume of automobiles and
light trucks, a light volume of medium-weight trucks, and occasional heavy-weight trucks (garbage
trucks and school buses).

Site development will require some earthwork in the form of minor cutting and filling. At this
time, we anticipate that maximum site grading cuts and fills, excluding utilities, will be on the
order of 1 to 3 feet.

3.      SITE INVESTIGATIONS

3.1     GENERAL

Subsurface conditions in unexplored locations or at other times may vary from those encountered at
specific test pit locations. If such variations are noted during construction or if project development
plans are changed, GSH must review the changes and amend our recommendations, if necessary.

Test pit locations were established by estimating distances and angles from site landmarks. If
increased accuracy is desired by the client, we recommend that the test pit locations and elevations
be surveyed.

3.2     FIELD PROGRAM

To further define and evaluate the subsurface soil and groundwater conditions across the site, an
additional 4 test pits were excavated within the accessible areas. These additional test pits were
completed to depths ranging from 8.5 to 11.0 feet with a moderate-sized rubber track-mounted
excavator. Excavation refusal within very dense granular soils terminated each test pit. The
approximate locations of the test pits are presented on Figure 2.

The field portion of our study was under the direct control and continual supervision of an
experienced member of our geotechnical staff. During the course of the excavation operations, a
continuous log of the subsurface conditions encountered was maintained. In addition, samples of
the typical soils encountered were obtained for subsequent laboratory testing and examination. The
soils were classified in the field based upon visual and textural examination. These classifications
were supplemented by subsequent inspection and testing in our laboratory. Graphical
representation of the subsurface conditions encountered is presented on Figures 3A through 3J,
Test Pit Logs. Soils were classified in accordance with the nomenclature described on Figure 4,
Key to Test Pit Log (USCS).




                                                                                                 Page 3
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



A 2.42-inch inside diameter thin-wall drive sampler was utilized at select locations and depths
within the test pit excavations to collect soil samples for further examination and laboratory testing.

Following completion of excavation operations, 1.25-inch diameter slotted PVC pipe was installed
in each test pit to provide a means of monitoring the groundwater fluctuations. The test pits were
then backfilled. Although an effort was made to compact the backfill with the excavator, backfill
was not placed in uniform lifts and compacted to a specific density. Consequently, settlement of
the backfill with time is likely to occur.

3.3      LABORATORY TESTING

3.3.1    General

To provide data necessary for our engineering analysis, a laboratory testing program was
performed. This program included moisture, partial gradation, and chemical tests. The following
paragraphs describe the tests and summarize the test data.

3.3.2    Moisture and Partial Gradation Tests

To aid in classifying the granular soils, partial gradation tests were performed. Results of the tests
are tabulated below and presented on the test pit logs, Figures 3A through 3J.

        Test Pit     Depth          Percent Passing        Moisture Content           Soil
          No.        (feet)          No. 200 Sieve             Percent            Classification
         TP-3          8.0                  0.7                    4.0                  GP
         TP-4          8.0                  3.1                    8.5                  GP
         TP-5          2.0                 20.6                   10.4                  SM
                       2.0                  9.7                    4.7                SP/SM
         TP-6
                       8.0                  4.7                    3.4                  GP
        TP-1A          5.0                  7.6                    3.8                SP/SM
                       1.0                 18.7                    6.2             SM/SC (Fill)
                       5.0                 37.4                    7.6                SM/SC*
        TP-2A
                       8.0                 14.2                   13.9                  SM
                       11.0                55.4                   23.8                SM/SC*




                                                                                                  Page 4
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



        Test Pit     Depth          Percent Passing       Moisture Content              Soil
          No.        (feet)          No. 200 Sieve            Percent               Classification
        TP-3A         3.0                 2.7                   1.2                      GP
                       3.0                  5.0                   1.1                  GP/GM
        TP-4A
                    8.5                     2.8                   1.9                    SP
* Sample contained layers of clay.

3.3.3    Chemical Tests

To determine if the site soils will react detrimentally with concrete, chemical tests were performed
on a representative sample of the near-surface soil encountered at the site. The results of the
chemical tests are tabulated below:

         Test Pit       Depth           Soil                     Total Water Soluble Sulfate
           No.          (feet)      Classification      pH              (mg/kg-dry)
          TP-3            3.0             SM            7.4                     3
          TP-2            2.0        SM/SC (Fill)       9.9                    11

4.       SITE CONDITIONS

4.1      SURFACE

The site is located at 6178 Holladay Boulevard in Holladay, Utah. The site is currently
vacant/undeveloped land. Big Cottonwood Creek intersects the middle of the site in the north/south
direction. Review of aerial imagery indicates that two single-family residential structures
previously existed in the western and eastern portion of the site. Relatively small fill piles (likely
associated with the demolition of the residential structures) were observed in portions of the site.
The topography of the site is relatively flat, grading down to the west with a total relief of
approximately 13 to 15 feet. Site vegetation consists of various weeds, brush, and grass throughout,
with mature trees located in the central portion of the site surrounding the creek.

The site is bounded to the north and west by single-family residential structures; to the east by
Holladay Boulevard followed by an office structure; and to the south by single-family residential
structures followed by Big Cottonwood Road.

4.2      SUBSURFACE SOIL

The following paragraphs provide generalized descriptions of the subsurface profiles and soil
conditions encountered within the test pits conducted during this study. As previously noted, soil
conditions may vary in unexplored locations.


                                                                                                 Page 5
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



The additional test pits were excavated to depths ranging from 8.5 to 11.0 feet. The soil conditions
encountered in each of the test pits, to the depths explored, were generally similar across the test
pit locations including those completed during the refenced study.

        •   Approximately 3 to 4 inches of topsoil was encountered in Test Pits TP-1, TP-3 through
            TP-6, and TP-1A through TP-4A. Topsoil thickness is frequently erratic and thicker
            zones of topsoil should be anticipated.

        •   Non-engineered fill soils were encountered in Test Pits TP-2, TP-1A, and TP-2A, to
            depths ranging from 1.0 to 6.0 feet beneath the existing ground surface. The non-
            engineered fill soils contained various debris and primarily consisted of clay with silt,
            sand, gravel, and boulder content and sand with varying clay, silt, gravel, and cobble
            content.

        •   Natural soils were encountered below the non-engineered fill or the ground surface in all
            test pit locations. The natural soils consisted primarily of sand and gravel with varying
            clay, silt, cobble, and boulder content.

        •   Materials causing excavation refusal were encountered within the dense natural soils in
            Test Pits TP-1A through TP-3A at depths of 11.0 feet below the existing ground surface.
            Excavation refusal due to significant sidewall caving was encountered in Test Pit TP-4A
            at a depth of 8.5 feet below the existing ground surface.

The natural granular sand and gravel soils were loose to very dense, slightly moist to saturated,
and reddish-brown, brown, tan, gray, and black in color. The natural granular soils are anticipated
to exhibit moderately high strength and moderately low compressibility characteristics under the
anticipated load range.

For a more descriptive interpretation of subsurface conditions, please refer to Figures 3A through
3J, Test Pit Logs. The lines designating the interface between soil types on the test pit logs
generally represent approximate boundaries. In situ, the transition between soil types may be
gradual.

4.3      GROUNDWATER

Groundwater was measured at various dates within the PVC pipes installed as tabulated on the
following page.




                                                                                               Page 6
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



                                                Groundwater Depth
          Test Pit                                    (feet)
            No.
                      June 30, 2020      April 22, 2021   April 28, 2021    July 15, 2024

            TP-1           11.6               NGWE           NGWE                   NM
            TP-2            7.1               NGWE           NGWE                   NM
            TP-3            NE                  8.2             7.6                 NM
            TP-4            NE                NGWE              8.1                 NM
            TP-5            NE                NGWE           NGWE                   NM
            TP-6            NE                  8.7          NGWE                   NM
           TP-1A            NE                  NE              NE              NGWE
           TP-2A            NE                  NE              NE                  10.9
           TP-3A            NE                  NE              NE                  11.0
           TP-4A            NE                  NE              NE              NGWE
                                  NE = Not Excavated
                                  NGWE = No Groundwater Encountered
                                  NM = Not Measured

Groundwater levels vary with changes in season and rainfall, construction activity, irrigation, snow
melt, surface water run-off, and other site-specific factors.

5.       DISCUSSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

5.1      SUMMARY OF FINDINGS

The proposed structures may be supported upon conventional spread and continuous wall
foundations supported upon suitable natural granular soils and/or structural fill extending to
suitable natural granular soils.

The most significant geotechnical aspects at the site are:

      1. The existing non-engineered fills encountered in some areas of the site.

      2. The relatively shallow depth to groundwater with respect to utilities and subgrade levels.

      3. The shallow depth to excavation refusal in Test Pits TP-1A through TP-4A.



                                                                                               Page 7
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



Prior to proceeding with construction, removal of all debris, surface vegetation, root systems,
topsoil, non-engineered fill, and any deleterious materials from beneath an area extending out at
least 5 feet from the perimeter of the proposed structure footprints and 3 feet beyond pavements
and exterior flatwork areas will be required. All existing utility locations should be reviewed to
assess their impact on the proposed construction and abandoned and/or relocated as appropriate.

Due to the developed nature of this site and the surrounding area, additional non-engineered fills
may exist in unexplored areas of the site. Based on our experience, non-engineered fills are
frequently erratic in composition and consistency. All surficial loose/disturbed soils and non-
engineered fills must be removed below all footings, floor slabs, and pavements.

Some of the on-site non-engineered fill soils encountered were granular. On-site granular soils,
including existing non-engineered fills, may be re-utilized as structural site grading fill if they meet
the criteria for such, as stated later in this report.

Groundwater was measured as shallow as 7.1 feet below the ground surface in June 2020 and as
shallow as 10.9 feet in July 2024. GSH recommends placing floor slabs no closer than 4 feet from
the highest groundwater elevation or 1.5 feet if a foundation subdrain system is utilized.
Foundation subdrain recommendations are discussed in Section 5.3.1, Subdrains.

The dense natural soils encountered at the refusal depths may require significant effort to excavate
and should be considered in the design and bidding process. However, larger excavation equipment
may be utilized to reach required design depths.

Detailed discussions pertaining to earthwork, foundations, pavements, and the geoseismic setting
of the site are presented in the following sections.

5.2     EARTHWORK

5.2.1   Site Preparation

Initial site preparation will consist of the removal of all debris, non-engineered fills, surface
vegetation, root systems, topsoil, and any deleterious materials from beneath an area extending out
at least 5 feet from the perimeter of the proposed structure footprint and 3 feet beyond pavements
and exterior flatwork areas. All existing utility locations should be reviewed to assess their impact
on the proposed construction and abandoned and/or relocated as appropriate.

Subsequent to stripping and prior to the placement of floor slabs, foundations, structural site
grading fills, exterior flatwork, and pavements, the exposed subgrade must be proof rolled by
passing moderate-weight rubber tire-mounted construction equipment over the surface at least
twice. If excessively soft or otherwise unsuitable soils are encountered beneath footings, they must
be completely removed. If removal depth required is greater than 2 feet below footings, GSH must
be notified to provide further recommendations. In pavement, floor slab, and outside flatwork


                                                                                                  Page 8
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



areas, unsuitable natural soils shall be removed to a maximum depth of 2 feet and replaced with
compacted granular structural fill.

Subgrade preparation as described must be completed prior to placing overlying structural site
grading fills.

GSH must be notified prior to the placement of structural site grading fills, floor slabs, footings,
and pavements to verify that all loose/disturbed soils and non-engineered fills have been
completely removed.

5.2.2   Temporary Excavations

Temporary excavations up to 8 feet deep in fine-grained cohesive soils, above or below the water
table, may be constructed with sideslopes no steeper than one-half horizontal to one vertical
(0.5H:1.0V). Excavations deeper than 8 feet are not anticipated at the site.

For granular (cohesionless) soils, construction excavations above the water table, not exceeding
4 feet, shall be no steeper than one-half horizontal to one vertical (0.5H:1.0V). For excavations up
to 8 feet, in granular soils and above the water table, the slopes shall be no steeper than one
horizontal to one vertical (1H:1V). Excavations encountering saturated cohesionless soils will be
very difficult and will require very flat sideslopes and/or shoring, bracing, and dewatering.

The static groundwater table was encountered as shallow as 7.1 feet below the existing surface and
may be shallower with seasonal fluctuations. Consideration for dewatering of utility trenches,
excavations for the removal of non-engineered fill, and other excavations below this level should
be incorporated into the design and bidding process.

Due to the relatively shallow excavation refusal depths, difficult excavation should be anticipated
within deeper excavations such as those for construction of utilities and subgrade levels. However,
larger excavation equipment may be utilized to reach required design depths.

All excavations must be inspected periodically by qualified personnel. If any signs of instability
or excessive sloughing are noted, immediate remedial action must be initiated.

5.2.3   Structural Fill

Structural fill is defined as all fill which will ultimately be subjected to structural loadings, such
as imposed by footings, floor slabs, pavements, etc. Structural fill will be required as backfill over
foundations and utilities, as site grading fill, and as replacement fill below footings. All structural
fill must be free of surface vegetation, root systems, rubbish, topsoil, frozen soil, and other
deleterious materials.

Structural site grading fill is defined as structural fill placed over relatively large open areas to
raise the overall grade. For structural site grading fill, the maximum particle size shall not exceed

                                                                                                 Page 9
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



4 inches; although, occasional larger particles, not exceeding 8 inches in diameter, may be
incorporated if placed randomly in a manner such that “honeycombing” does not occur and the
desired degree of compaction can be achieved. The maximum particle size within structural fill
placed within confined areas shall be restricted to 2 inches.

On-site soils, including existing non-engineered fills, may be re-utilized as structural site grading
fill if they do not contain construction debris or deleterious material and meet the requirements of
structural fill. Fine-grained soils will require very close moisture control and may be very difficult,
if not impossible, to properly place and compact during wet and cold periods of the year.

Imported structural fill below foundations and floor slabs shall consist of a well graded sand and
gravel mixture with less than 30 percent retained on the three-quarter-inch sieve and less than
20 percent passing the No. 200 Sieve (clays and silts).

To stabilize soft subgrade conditions (if encountered) or where structural fill is required to be
placed closer than 2.0 feet above the water table at the time of construction, a mixture of coarse
angular gravels and cobbles and/or 1.5- to 2.0-inch gravel (stabilizing fill) shall be utilized. It may
also help to utilize a stabilization fabric, such as Mirafi 600X or equivalent, placed on the natural
ground if 1.5- to 2.0-inch gravel is used as stabilizing fill.

5.2.4   Fill Placement and Compaction

All structural fill shall be placed in lifts not exceeding 8 inches in loose thickness. Structural fills
shall be compacted in accordance with the percent of the maximum dry density as determined by
the AASHTO 2 T180 (ASTM 3 D1557) compaction criteria in accordance with the following table:

                                                 Total Fill   Minimum Percentage
                          Location               Thickness     of Maximum Dry
                                                   (feet)          Density
                Beneath an area extending          0 to 5                95
                at least 5 feet beyond the
                perimeter of the structure        5 to 10*              100

                 Site grading fills outside        0 to 5                90
                    area defined above            5 to 10*              100




2
        American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials
3
        American Society for Testing and Materials
                                                                                                 Page 10
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



                                                 Total Fill    Minimum Percentage
                          Location               Thickness      of Maximum Dry
                                                   (feet)           Density
                   Utility trenches within
                                                       --                 96
                       structural areas
                         Road base                     --                 96

* For structural fill sequences greater than 5 feet thick and up to 10 feet thick, the entire fill
sequence must be compacted to 100 percent of the maximum dry density and compaction shall be
performed at 0- to 3-percent over the optimum moisture content.

Structural fills greater than 10 feet thick are not anticipated at the site.

Subsequent to stripping and prior to the placement of structural site grading fill, the subgrade shall
be prepared as discussed in Section 5.2.1, Site Preparation, of this report. In confined areas,
subgrade preparation shall consist of the removal of all loose or disturbed soils.

Coarse angular gravel and cobble mixtures (stabilizing fill), if utilized, shall be end dumped, spread
to a maximum loose lift thickness of 15 inches, and compacted by dropping a backhoe bucket onto
the surface continuously at least twice. As an alternative, the stabilizing fill may be compacted by
passing moderately heavy construction equipment or large self-propelled compaction equipment
at least twice. Subsequent fill material placed over the coarse gravels and cobbles shall be
adequately compacted so that the “fines” are “worked into” the voids in the underlying coarser
gravels and cobbles. Where soil fill materials are to be placed directly over more than about
18 inches of clean gravel, a separation geofabric, such as Mirafi 140N or equivalent, is
recommended to be placed between the gravel and subsequent soil fills.

Non-structural fill may be placed in lifts not exceeding 12 inches in loose thickness and compacted
by passing construction, spreading, or hauling equipment over the surface at least twice.

5.2.5   Utility Trenches

All utility trench backfill material below structurally loaded facilities (footings, floor slabs,
flatwork, pavements, etc.) shall be placed at the same density requirements established for
structural fill. If the surface of the backfill becomes disturbed during the course of construction,
the backfill shall be proof rolled and/or properly compacted prior to the construction of any exterior
flatwork over a backfilled trench. Proof rolling shall be performed by passing moderately loaded
rubber tire-mounted construction equipment uniformly over the surface at least twice. If
excessively loose or soft areas are encountered during proof rolling, they shall be removed to a
maximum depth of 2 feet below design finish grade and replaced with structural fill.

Many utility companies and City-County governments are now requiring that Type A-1a or A-1b
(AASHTO Designation – granular soils with limited fines) soils be used as backfill over utilities.
These organizations are also requiring that in public roadways, the backfill over major utilities be
                                                                                               Page 11
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



compacted over the full depth of fill to at least 96 percent of the maximum dry density as
determined by the AASHTO T180 (ASTM D1557) method of compaction. GSH recommends that
as the major utilities continue onto the site that these compaction specifications are followed.

Fine-grained soils, such as silts and clays, are not recommended for utility trench backfill in
structural areas.

The static groundwater table was encountered as shallow as 7.1 feet below the existing surface and
may be shallower with seasonal fluctuations. Dewatering of utility trenches and other excavations
below this level should be anticipated.

Due to the relatively shallow excavation refusal depths, difficult excavation should be anticipated
within deeper excavations such as those for construction of utilities and subgrade levels. However,
larger excavation equipment may be utilized to reach required design depths.

5.3     GROUNDWATER

Groundwater was measured at various dates within the PVC pipes installed as tabulated on the
below:

                                                Groundwater Depth
         Test Pit                                     (feet)
           No.
                      June 30, 2020      April 22, 2021   April 28, 2021   July 15, 2024

           TP-1            11.6               NGWE           NGWE               NM
           TP-2             7.1               NGWE           NGWE               NM
           TP-3             NE                  8.2            7.6              NM
           TP-4             NE                NGWE             8.1              NM
           TP-5             NE                NGWE           NGWE               NM
           TP-6             NE                  8.7          NGWE               NM
          TP-1A             NE                  NE             NE             NGWE
          TP-2A             NE                  NE             NE               10.9
          TP-3A             NE                  NE             NE               11.0
          TP-4A             NE                  NE             NE             NGWE
                                  NE = Not Excavated
                                  NGWE = No Groundwater Encountered
                                  NM = Not Measured


                                                                                            Page 12
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



Based on the anticipated cuts necessary to reach design subgrades, we anticipate temporary and
permanent dewatering will be necessary. Floor slabs must be placed a minimum of 4 feet from the
stabilized groundwater elevation or 1.5 feet if a perimeter subdrain system is utilized. Foundation
subdrain recommendations are discussed in Section 5.3.1, Subdrains.

The groundwater measurements presented are conditions at the time of the field exploration and
may not be representative of other times or locations. Groundwater levels may vary seasonally and
with precipitation, as well as other factors including irrigation. Evaluation of these factors is
beyond the scope of this study. Groundwater levels may, therefore, be at shallower or deeper
depths than those measured during this study, including during construction and over the life of
the structure.

The extent and nature of any dewatering required during construction will be dependent on the
actual groundwater conditions prevalent at the time of construction and the effectiveness of
construction drainage to prevent run-off into open excavations.

5.3.1   Subdrains

A subdrain system, if utilized, shall consist of a perimeter foundation/chimney subdrain and an
under-slab subdrain. The perimeter subdrain would consist of a 4-inch diameter slotted or
perforated PVC or other durable material pipe installed with an invert at least 18 inches below the
top of the lowest adjacent slab. The drain pipe shall slope at least 0.25 percent to a suitable point
of gravity discharge, such as an inside or outside sump. The 4-inch diameter slotted PVC pipe shall
be encased in a one-half to three-quarter-inch clean gap-graded gravel extending 2 inches below
laterally and continuously up at least 12 inches above the top of the lowest adjacent slab. The
gravels must be separated from the adjacent soils with a geotextile fabric, such as Mirafi 140N or
equivalent. Extending up from the top of the foundation subdrain to within 1 foot of final grade
shall be a synthetic drain board or a zone of “free-draining” permeable fill, also separated from all
adjacent soils with a geotextile fabric. Prior to the placement of the perimeter foundation subdrain,
the outside subgrade walls shall be appropriately waterproofed.

In addition to the perimeter foundation/chimney subdrain, an under-slab drain is recommended.
This shall consist of a minimum of 8 inches of “free-draining” one-half to three-quarter-inch minus
clean gap-graded gravel placed over properly prepared suitable natural subgrade soils and/or
structural fill extending to suitable natural soil. The “free-draining” gravel shall be hydraulically
connected to the perimeter drain. In addition, we recommend 4-inch diameter slotted PVC pipes
be installed laterally and spaced approximately 50 feet apart beneath the below-grade level slab of
the structure with an invert elevation of at least 12 inches below the top of the lowest adjacent slab.
This subdrain would be similarly encased in the one-half- to three-quarter-inch clean gap-graded
gravel, separated from the natural soils with a geotextile fabric, extending up to the 6-inch layer of
gravel underneath the at-grade slab. This subdrain line would discharge to the perimeter subdrain.

GSH also recommends that a minimum of 10.0 inches of free-draining gravel material be placed
below the floor slab and that this gravel be hydraulically tied to the perimeter foundation drain.

                                                                                                Page 13
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



This may be accomplished by placing footings on a minimum of 6.0 inches of similar free-draining
gravel material. Lateral drains must also be placed approximately every 50 feet and tied to the
subdrain system.

Water collected by the subdrain system would be gravity discharged or pumped to a suitable
discharge point such as area subdrains, storm drains, or other suitable down-gradient location (see
attached Figure 5, Typical Foundation/Chimney Subdrain Detail 18”). A back-up power and back-
up pump would need to be incorporated against failure if a suitable gravity discharge system is
unavailable.

5.4     SPREAD AND CONTINUOUS WALL FOUNDATIONS

5.4.1   Design Data

The results of our analysis indicate that the proposed structures may be supported upon
conventional spread and continuous wall foundations established upon suitable natural granular
soils and/or structural fill extending to suitable natural granular soils. Under no circumstances shall
foundations be established over non-engineered fills, loose or disturbed soils, topsoil, surface
vegetation, root systems, rubbish, construction debris, other deleterious materials, frozen soils, or
within ponded water. For design, the following parameters are provided:

        Minimum Recommended Depth of Embedment for
          Frost Protection                                                       - 30 inches

        Minimum Recommended Depth of Embedment for
          Non-frost Conditions                                                   - 15 inches

        Recommended Minimum Width for Continuous
          Wall Footings                                                          - 18 inches

        Minimum Recommended Width for Isolated Spread
          Footings                                                               - 24 inches

         Recommended Net Bearing Capacity for Real
           Load Conditions for Footings Established Upon
           Suitable Natural Granular Soils                                       - 2,500 pounds
                                                                                   per square foot

         Bearing Capacity Increase
           for Seismic Loading                                                   - 50 percent

The term “net bearing capacity” refers to the allowable pressure imposed by the portion of the
structure located above lowest adjacent final grade. Therefore, the weight of the footing and
backfill to lowest adjacent final grade need not be considered. Real loads are defined as the total

                                                                                                Page 14
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



of all dead plus frequently applied live loads. Total load includes all dead and live loads, including
seismic and wind.

5.4.2   Installation

Under no circumstances shall the footings be installed upon non-engineered fills, loose or
disturbed soils, topsoil, surface vegetation, root systems, rubbish, construction debris, or other
deleterious materials. If unsuitable soils are encountered, they must be removed and replaced with
compacted granular fill. If granular soils become loose or disturbed, they must be recompacted
prior to pouring the concrete.

The width of structural replacement fill below footings shall be equal to the width of the footing
plus one foot for each foot of fill thickness.

5.4.3   Settlements

Based on column loadings, soil bearing capacities, and the foundation recommendations as discussed
above, we expect primary total settlement beneath individual foundations to be less than one inch.

The amount of differential settlement is difficult to predict because the subsurface and foundation
loading conditions can vary considerably across the site. However, we anticipate differential
settlement between adjacent foundations could vary from 0.5 to 0.75 inch. The final deflected
shape of the structure will be dependent on actual foundation locations and loading.

5.4.4   Bridge Uplift Loads

If the proposed bridge is supported upon conventional spread foundations, uplift loads may be
resisted by the weight of the foundation and the backfill within the volume defined by an imaginary
line extending outward from the outside top edge of the footing 10 degrees from vertical to final
grade. A unit weight of a well-graded sand and gravel backfill (115 pounds per cubic foot) over
the footings may be used.

5.5     LATERAL RESISTANCE

Lateral loads imposed upon foundations due to wind or seismic forces may be resisted by the
development of passive earth pressures and friction between the base of the footings and the
supporting soils. In determining frictional resistance, a coefficient of friction of 0.40 may be
utilized for the footing interface with in-situ natural granular soils or granular structural fill.
Passive resistance provided by properly placed and compacted granular structural fill above the
water table may be considered equivalent to a fluid with a density of 300 pounds per cubic foot.
Below the water table, this granular soil shall be considered equivalent to a fluid with a density of
150 pounds per cubic foot.




                                                                                               Page 15
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



A combination of passive earth resistance and friction may be utilized provided that the friction
component of the total is divided by 1.5.

5.6     LATERAL PRESSURES

Parameters, as presented within this section, are for backfills which will consist of drained soil
placed and compacted in accordance with the recommendations presented herein.

The lateral pressures imposed upon subgrade facilities will, therefore, be basically dependent upon
the relative rigidity and movement of the backfilled structure. For active walls, such as retaining
walls which can move outward (away from the backfill), drained backfill may be considered
equivalent to a fluid with a density of 40 pounds per cubic foot in computing lateral pressures. For
more rigid subgrade walls that are not more than 10 inches thick, granular backfill may be
considered equivalent to a fluid with a density of 50 pounds per cubic foot. For very rigid non-
yielding walls, granular backfill shall be considered equivalent to a fluid with a density of at least
60 pounds per cubic foot. The above values assume that the surface of the soils slope behind the
wall is horizontal and that the granular fill within 3 feet of the wall will be compacted with hand-
operated compacting equipment.

For seismic loading of below-grade walls, the uniform lateral pressures below, in pounds per
square foot (psf), shall be added based on wall depth and wall case:

                                       Uniform Lateral Pressures
      Wall Height         Active Pressure         Moderately Yielding     At Rest/Non-Yielding
        (Feet)              Case (psf)                Case (psf)               Case (psf)
          4                       80                     115                        150
          6                      121                     172                        224
          8                      161                     230                        299

5.7     FLOOR SLABS

Floor slabs may be established upon suitable natural subgrade soils or structural fill extending to
suitable natural soils. Under no circumstances shall floor slabs be established directly over non-
engineered fills, loose or disturbed soils, sod, rubbish, construction debris, other deleterious
materials, frozen soils, or within ponded water.

Additionally, GSH recommends that floor slabs be constructed a minimum of 4.0 feet from the
stabilized groundwater elevation or 1.5 feet if a foundation subdrain system is utilized. Foundation
subdrain recommendations are discussed in Section 5.3.1, Subdrains.




                                                                                               Page 16
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



To facilitate curing of the concrete and to provide a capillary moisture break, it is recommended
that floor slabs be directly underlain by at least 4 inches of “free-draining” fill, such as “pea” gravel
or three-quarters to one inch minus clean gap-graded gravel.

Settlement of lightly loaded floor slabs designed according to previous recommendations (average
uniform pressure of 200 pounds per square foot or less) is anticipated to be less than one-quarter
of an inch.

5.8     PAVEMENTS

All pavement areas must be prepared as previously discussed (see Section 5.2.1, Site Preparation).
Under no circumstances shall pavements be established over non-engineered fills, loose or
disturbed soils, topsoil, surface vegetation, root systems, rubbish, construction debris, other
deleterious materials, frozen soils, or within ponded water. With the subgrade soils and the
estimated projected traffic as discussed in Section 2, Proposed Construction, the following
pavement sections are recommended:



                                         Residential Roadways

                   (Light to Moderate Volume of Automobiles and Light Trucks,
                             Light Volume of Medium-Weight Trucks,
                               and Occasional Heavy-Weight Trucks)
                              [9 equivalent 18-kip axle loads per day]

        Flexible Pavements:
        (Asphalt Concrete)

                                 3.0 inches                Asphalt concrete

                                 8.0 inches                Aggregate base

                                 Over                      Properly prepared natural subgrade soils
                                                           and/or structural site grading fill extending
                                                           to properly prepared natural subgrade soils
        Rigid Pavements:
        (Non-reinforced Concrete)

                                 5.0 inches                Portland cement concrete
                                                           (non-reinforced)

                                 6.0 inches                Aggregate base


                                                                                                  Page 17
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



                                 Over                     Properly prepared natural subgrade soils,
                                                          and/or structural site grading fill extending
                                                          to properly prepared natural subgrade soils


These above rigid pavement sections are for non-reinforced Portland cement concrete. Concrete
shall be designed in accordance with the American Concrete Institute (ACI) and joint details shall
conform to the Portland Cement Association (PCA) guidelines. The concrete shall have a
minimum 28-day unconfined compressive strength of 4,000 pounds per square inch and contain
6 percent ±1 percent air-entrainment.

The crushed stone shall conform to applicable sections of the current Utah Department of
Transportation (UDOT) Standard Specifications. All asphalt material and paving operations shall
meet applicable specifications of the Asphalt Institute and UDOT. A GSH technician shall observe
placement and perform density testing of the base course material and asphalt.

Please note that the recommended pavement section is based on estimated post-construction traffic
loading. If the pavement is to be constructed and utilized by construction traffic, the above pavement
section may prove insufficient for heavy truck traffic, such as concrete trucks or tractor-trailers used
for construction delivery. Unexpected distress, reduced pavement life, and/or premature failure of
the pavement section could result if subjected to heavy construction traffic and the owner should be
made aware of this risk. If the estimated traffic loading stated herein is not correct, GSH must review
actual pavement loading conditions to determine if revisions to these recommendations are
warranted.

5.9     CEMENT TYPES

The laboratory tests indicate that the natural soils tested contain a negligible amount of sulfates.
Based on our test results, concrete in contact with the on-site soil will have a low potential for
sulfate reaction (ACI 318, Table 4.3.1). Therefore, all concrete which will be in contact with the
site soils may be prepared using Type I or IA cement.

5.10    GEOSEISMIC SETTING

5.10.1 General

Utah municipalities have adopted the International Building Code (IBC) 2021. The IBC 2021 code
refers to ASCE 7-16 Minimum Design Loads and Associated Criteria for Buildings and Other
Structures (ASCE 7-16) determines the seismic hazard for a site based upon mapping of bedrock
accelerations prepared by the United States Geologic Survey (USGS) and the soil site class. The
USGS values are presented on maps incorporated into the IBC code and are also available based
on latitude and longitude coordinates (grid points).



                                                                                                 Page 18
 J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
 Job No. 3054-004-24
 Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
 July 24, 2024



 5.10.2 Faulting

 Based on our review of available literature, no active faults pass through or immediately adjacent
 to the site. The nearest active mapped fault consists of the Salt Lake City section of the Wasatch
 fault zone, located about 0.7 miles to the east of the site.

 5.10.3 Soil Class

 For dynamic structural analysis, the Site Class D – Default Soil Profile as defined in Chapter 20
 of ASCE 7-16 (per Section 1613.3.2, Site Class Definitions, of IBC 2021) can be utilized. If a
 measured site class is desired based on the project structural engineer's evaluation and
 recommendations, additional testing and analysis can be completed by GSH to determine the
 measured site class. Please contact GSH for additional information.

 5.10.4 Ground Motions

 The IBC 2021 code is based on USGS mapping, which provides values of short and long period
 accelerations for average bedrock values for the Western United States and must be corrected for
 local soil conditions. The following table summarizes the peak ground and short and long period
 accelerations for the MCE event and incorporates the appropriate soil amplification factor for a
 Site Class D – Default* Soil Profile. Based on the site latitude and longitude (40.6392 degrees
 north and 111.8140 degrees west, respectively), the values for this site are tabulated below.

                                 Bedrock                       Site Class D - Default*
        Spectral                 Boundary                         [adjusted for site       Design
      Acceleration            [mapped values]   Site                class effects]        Values**
        Value, T                  (% g)       Coefficient               (% g)              (% g)

       0.2 Seconds              SS = 137.2        Fa = 1.200       SMS = 164.7           SDS = 109.8
(Short Period Acceleration)

       1.0 Second               S1 = 50.5         Fv = 1.795       SM1 = 90.6            SD1 = 60.4
(Long Period Acceleration)

 * If a measured site class in accordance with IBC 2021/ ASCE 7-16 is beneficial based on the
   project structural engineers review, please contact GSH for additional options for obtaining this
   measured site class.
 **IBC 2021/ASCE 7-16 may require a site-specific study based on the project structural engineer’s
   evaluation and recommendations. If needed, GSH can provide additional information and
   analysis including a complete site-specific study.




                                                                                             Page 19
J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
Job No. 3054-004-24
Geotechnical Study - Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
July 24, 2024



5.10.5 Liquefaction

The site is located in an area that has been identified by the Utah Geological Survey (UGS) as
being a “moderate” liquefaction potential zone. Liquefaction is defined as the condition when
saturated, loose, granular soils lose their support capabilities because of excessive pore water
pressure, which develops during a seismic event. Clayey soils, even if saturated, will generally not
liquefy during a major seismic event.

Liquefaction was not included in the scope of this study and would require a deeper (30+ foot)
boring for engineering analysis.

5.11    SITE VISITS

GSH must verify that all topsoil/disturbed soils and any other unsuitable soils have been removed,
that non-engineered fills have been removed and/or properly prepared, and that suitable soils have
been encountered prior to placing site grading fills, footings, slabs, and pavements. Additionally,
GSH must observe fill placement and verify in-place moisture content and density of fill materials
placed at the site.

5.12    CLOSURE

If you have any questions or would like to discuss these items further, please feel free to contact
us at (801) 685-9190.

Respectfully submitted,

GSH Geotechnical, Inc.                                 Reviewed by:



Giavanna Lonardo, E.I.T.                               Alan D. Spilker, P.E.
Staff Engineer                                         State of Utah No. 334228
                                                       President/Senior Geotechnical Engineer
GAL/ADS:age


Encl. Figure      1,     Vicinity Map
      Figure      2,     Site Plan
      Figures     3A     through 3J, Log of Test Pits
      Figure      4,     Key to Test Pit Log (USCS)
      Figure      5,     Typical Foundation Chimney Subdrain Detail 18”
Addressee (email)




                                                                                             Page 20
J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
JOB NO. 3054-004-24




                                           SITE




                                                    FIGURE 1
                                                  VICINITY MAP
REFERENCE:
ALL TRAILS - NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC TERRAIN
DATED 2024
J-U-B ENGINEERS, INC.
JOB NO. 3054-004-24




                                                    TP-3A
                                          TP-4


                                                                                                TP-2A

                                                   TP-3                            TP-1A
                                         TP-4A
                                  TP-1

                                                          TP-6
                                         TP-2

                                                 TP-5




                                                                                                                       FIGURE 2
                                                                                              KEY:
 REFERENCE:                                                                                    June 30, 2020 Report
                                                                                                                      SITE PLAN
 ADAPTED FROM AERIAL PHOTOGRAPH
 DOWNLOADED FROM GOOGLE EARTH
                                                                 APPROXIMATE SCALE IN FEET     Current Report
                                                                 45      0      45       90
 IMAGERY DATED 7/2023
                                                            TEST PIT LOG                                                                        TEST PIT: TP-1
                                                                         Page: 1 of 1
CLIENT: JLF Architects                                                                        PROJECT NUMBER: 3293-001-21
PROJECT: Proposed Single-Family Residential Structure                                         DATE STARTED: 6/30/20                                                                            DATE FINISHED: 6/30/20
LOCATION: 2715 East 6200 South, Holladay, Utah                                                                                                                                                               GSH FIELD REP.: TH
EXCAVATING METHOD/EQUIPMENT: 6-ton Kubota
GROUNDWATER DEPTH: 11.6' (6/30/20)                                                                                                                                                                                         ELEVATION: ---




                                                                                                                                               DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                      PLASTICITY INDEX
                                                                                                                                                                                   LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                                SAMPLE SYMBOL
WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                                MOISTURE (%)



                                                                                                                                                                   % PASSING 200
                                                                                                  DEPTH (FT.)
                                              DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                     REMARKS
              U
              S
              C
              S
                                              Ground Surface
              SP FINE TO COARSE SAND
                                                                                                  0                                                                                                                      slightly moist
                 with fine and coarse gravelly cobbles with boulders; major roots (topsoil)                                                                                                                              loose
                 to 3"; oxidation mottling; reddish-brown
              GP FINE AND COARSE GRAVEL                                                                                                                                                                                  slightly moist
                 with fine to coarse sand, cobbles, and boulders; brown                                                                                                                                                  loose



                                                                                                                                                                                                                         moist
                                                                                                  5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dense



                                                                                                  10



                                                                                                                                                                                                                         saturated
                  End of exploration at 12.0'.
                  No significant sidewall caving.
                  No groundwater encountered at time of excavation.
                  Installed 1.25” diameter slotted PVC pipe to 12.0’.


                                                                                                  15




                                                                                                  20




                                                                                                  25

    See Subsurface Conditions section in the report for additional information.                                                                                                                                             FIGURE 3A
                                                             TEST PIT LOG                                                                    TEST PIT: TP-2
                                                                            Page: 1 of 1
CLIENT: JLF Architects                                                                     PROJECT NUMBER: 3293-001-21
PROJECT: Proposed Single-Family Residential Structure                                      DATE STARTED: 6/30/20                                                                            DATE FINISHED: 6/30/20
LOCATION: 2715 East 6200 South, Holladay, Utah                                                                                                                                                            GSH FIELD REP.: TH
EXCAVATING METHOD/EQUIPMENT: 6-ton Kubota
GROUNDWATER DEPTH: 7.1' (6/30/20)                                                                                                                                                                                       ELEVATION: ---




                                                                                                                                            DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                   PLASTICITY INDEX
                                                                                                                                                                                LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                             SAMPLE SYMBOL
WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                             MOISTURE (%)



                                                                                                                                                                % PASSING 200
                                                                                               DEPTH (FT.)
                                               DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                 REMARKS
              U
              S
              C
              S
                                               Ground Surface
               SM SILTY FINE TO COARSE SAND, FILL (previously demolished
                                                                                               0                                                                                                                      slightly moist
              FILL with fine and coarse gravelly cobbles with boulders; oxidation                                                                                                                                     loose
                   mottling; reddish-brown
              GP FINE AND COARSE GRAVEL                                                                                                                                                                               slightly moist
                   with fine to coarse sand, cobbles, and boulders; brown                                                                                                                                             loose




                                                                                               5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      dense

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      saturated


                   End of exploration at 8.5'.
                   No significant sidewall caving.
                   No groundwater encountered at time of excavation.
                                                                                               10
                   Installed 1.25” diameter slotted PVC pipe to 8.5’.




                                                                                               15




                                                                                               20




                                                                                               25

    See Subsurface Conditions section in the report for additional information.                                                                                                                                          FIGURE 3B
                                                             TEST PIT LOG                                                                TEST PIT: TP-3
                                                                        Page: 1 of 1
CLIENT: JLF Architects                                                                 PROJECT NUMBER: 3293-001-21
PROJECT: Proposed Single-Family Residential Structure                                  DATE STARTED: 4/13/21                                                                            DATE FINISHED: 4/13/21
LOCATION: 2715 East 6200 South, Holladay, Utah                                                                                                                                                 GSH FIELD REP.: NLW
EXCAVATING METHOD/EQUIPMENT: 6-ton Kubota
GROUNDWATER DEPTH: 7.6' (4/28/21)                                                                                                                                                                                   ELEVATION: ---




                                                                                                                                        DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                               PLASTICITY INDEX
                                                                                                                                                                            LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                         SAMPLE SYMBOL
WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                         MOISTURE (%)



                                                                                                                                                            % PASSING 200
                                                                                           DEPTH (FT.)
                                              DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                              REMARKS
              U
              S
              C
              S
                                              Ground Surface
              SM SILTY FINE TO MEDIUM SAND
                                                                                           0                                                                                                                      slightly moist
                  with fine and coarse gravel, some cobbles, and some clay; major                                                                                                                                 medium dense
                  roots (topsoil) to 4"; brown




              GP FINE TO COARSE SANDY FINE AND COARSE GRAVEL                                                                                                                                                      slightly moist
                  with trace silt and occasional cobbles; gray                                                                                                                                                    medium dense
                                                                                           5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  dense
                                                                                                                            4                               0.7                                                   saturated




                                                                                           10




                  End of exploration at 12.0'.
                  No significant sidewall caving.
                  Installed 1.25” diameter slotted PVC pipe to 12.0’.



                                                                                           15




                                                                                           20




                                                                                           25

    See Subsurface Conditions section in the report for additional information.                                                                                                                                      FIGURE 3C
                                                            TEST PIT LOG                                                                  TEST PIT: TP-4
                                                                         Page: 1 of 1
CLIENT: JLF Architects                                                                  PROJECT NUMBER: 3293-001-21
PROJECT: Proposed Single-Family Residential Structure                                   DATE STARTED: 4/13/21                                                                            DATE FINISHED: 4/13/21
LOCATION: 2715 East 6200 South, Holladay, Utah                                                                                                                                                  GSH FIELD REP.: NLW
EXCAVATING METHOD/EQUIPMENT: 6-ton Kubota
GROUNDWATER DEPTH: 8.1' (4/28/21)                                                                                                                                                                                    ELEVATION: ---




                                                                                                                                         DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                PLASTICITY INDEX
                                                                                                                                                                             LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                          SAMPLE SYMBOL
WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                          MOISTURE (%)



                                                                                                                                                             % PASSING 200
                                                                                            DEPTH (FT.)
                                              DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                               REMARKS
              U
              S
              C
              S
                                              Ground Surface
              SM SILTY FINE TO COARSE SAND
                                                                                            0                                                                                                                      slightly moist
                  with fine and coarse gravel and some cobbles; major roots (topsoil)                                                                                                                              medium dense
                  to 4"; brown




              GP FINE TO COARSE SANDY FINE AND COARSE GRAVEL                                                                                                                                                       slightly moist
                  with cobbles and boulders; gray                                                                                                                                                                  dense
                                                                                            5




                                                                                                                          8.5                                3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   saturated



                                                                                            10




                  End of exploration at 13.0'.
                  No significant sidewall caving.
                  Installed 1.25” diameter slotted PVC pipe to 13.0’.
                                                                                            15




                                                                                            20




                                                                                            25

    See Subsurface Conditions section in the report for additional information.                                                                                                                                       FIGURE 3D
                                                            TEST PIT LOG                                                                   TEST PIT: TP-5
                                                                          Page: 1 of 1
CLIENT: JLF Architects                                                                   PROJECT NUMBER: 3293-001-21
PROJECT: Proposed Single-Family Residential Structure                                    DATE STARTED: 4/13/21                                                                            DATE FINISHED: 4/13/21
LOCATION: 2715 East 6200 South, Holladay, Utah                                                                                                                                                   GSH FIELD REP.: NLW
EXCAVATING METHOD/EQUIPMENT: 6-ton Kubota
GROUNDWATER DEPTH: Not Encountered (4/13/21)                                                                                                                                                                          ELEVATION: ---




                                                                                                                                          DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                 PLASTICITY INDEX
                                                                                                                                                                              LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                           SAMPLE SYMBOL
WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                           MOISTURE (%)



                                                                                                                                                              % PASSING 200
                                                                                             DEPTH (FT.)
                                              DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                               REMARKS
              U
              S
              C
              S
                                              Ground Surface
              SM SILTY FINE TO COARSE SAND
                                                                                             0                                                                                                                      slightly moist
                  with some fine and coarse gravel; major roots (topsoil) to 4"; brown                                                                                                                              medium dense

                                                                                                                           10.4                               20.6




              GP FINE TO COARSE SANDY FINE AND COARSE GRAVEL                                                                                                                                                        moist
                                                                                             5                                                                                                                      dense
                  with cobbles and boulders; brown




                                                                                             10
                  End of exploration at 10.0'.
                  No significant sidewall caving.
                  No groundwater encountered at time of excavation.
                  Installed 1.25” diameter slotted PVC pipe to 10.0’.




                                                                                             15




                                                                                             20




                                                                                             25

    See Subsurface Conditions section in the report for additional information.                                                                                                                                        FIGURE 3E
                                                             TEST PIT LOG                                                                    TEST PIT: TP-6
                                                                           Page: 1 of 1
CLIENT: JLF Architects                                                                     PROJECT NUMBER: 3293-001-21
PROJECT: Proposed Single-Family Residential Structure                                      DATE STARTED: 4/13/21                                                                            DATE FINISHED: 4/13/21
LOCATION: 2715 East 6200 South, Holladay, Utah                                                                                                                                                     GSH FIELD REP.: NLW
EXCAVATING METHOD/EQUIPMENT: 6-ton Kubota
GROUNDWATER DEPTH: Not Encountered (4/13/21)                                                                                                                                                                            ELEVATION: ---




                                                                                                                                            DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                   PLASTICITY INDEX
                                                                                                                                                                                LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                             SAMPLE SYMBOL
WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                             MOISTURE (%)



                                                                                                                                                                % PASSING 200
                                                                                               DEPTH (FT.)
                                               DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                 REMARKS
              U
              S
              C
              S
                                               Ground Surface
              SP/ FINE TO COARSE SAND
                                                                                               0                                                                                                                      slightly moist
              SM with some fine and coarse gravel and silt; major roots (topsoil) to 4";                                                                                                                              medium dense
                  brown
                                                                                                                             4.7                                9.7



              GP FINE TO COARSE SANDY FINE AND COARSE GRAVEL                                                                                                                                                          slightly moist
                  with cobbles and boulders; gray                                                                                                                                                                     dense
                                                                                               5




                                                                                                                             3.4                                4.7




                                                                                               10




                  End of exploration at 12.0'.
                  No significant sidewall caving.
                  No groundwater encountered at time of excavation.
                  Installed 1.25” diameter slotted PVC pipe to 12.0’.


                                                                                               15




                                                                                               20




                                                                                               25

    See Subsurface Conditions section in the report for additional information.                                                                                                                                          FIGURE 3F
                                                                 TEST PIT LOG                                                                TEST PIT: TP-1A
                                                                             Page: 1 of 1
CLIENT: J-U-B Engineers, Inc.                                                               PROJECT NUMBER: 3054-004-24
PROJECT: Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision                                                    DATE STARTED: 6/17/24                                                                            DATE FINISHED: 6/17/24
LOCATION: 6178 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay, Utah                                                                                                                                                          GSH FIELD REP.: AF
EXCAVATING METHOD/EQUIPMENT: Sany SV60
GROUNDWATER DEPTH: Not Encountered (7/15/24)                                                                                                                                                                             ELEVATION: ---




                                                                                                                                             DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                    PLASTICITY INDEX
                                                                                                                                                                                 LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                              SAMPLE SYMBOL
 WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                              MOISTURE (%)



                                                                                                                                                                 % PASSING 200
                                                                                                DEPTH (FT.)
                                                 DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                REMARKS
                U
                S
                C
                S
                                                 Ground Surface
                CL SILTY CLAY, FILL
                                                                                                0                                                                                                                      slightly moist
               FILL with fine and coarse gravel and trace fine to coarse sand; boulders;                                                                                                                               medium stiff
                    debris; major roots (topsoil) to 3"; black


                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sidewall caving

               SP/ FINE TO COARSE SAND                                                                                                                                                                                 slightly moist
               SM with fine and coarse gravel, some silt, and trace cobbles; black                                                                                                                                     dense
                                                                                                                              3.8                                7.6
                                                                                                5




                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       very dense
                    Refusal at 11.0' on tightly packed boulders.
                    Significant sidewall caving.
                    No groundwater encountered at time of excavation.
                    Installed 1.25” diameter slotted PVC pipe to 11.0’.




                                                                                                15




                                                                                                20




                                                                                                25

   See Subsurface Conditions section in the report for additional information.                                                                                                                                            FIGURE 3G
                                                                  TEST PIT LOG                                                               TEST PIT: TP-2A
                                                                            Page: 1 of 1
CLIENT: J-U-B Engineers, Inc.                                                              PROJECT NUMBER: 3054-004-24
PROJECT: Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision                                                   DATE STARTED: 6/17/24                                                                              DATE FINISHED: 6/17/24
LOCATION: 6178 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay, Utah                                                                                                                                                           GSH FIELD REP.: AF
EXCAVATING METHOD/EQUIPMENT: Sany SV60
GROUNDWATER DEPTH: 10.9' (7/15/24)                                                                                                                                                                                        ELEVATION: ---




                                                                                                                                             DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLASTICITY INDEX
                                                                                                                                                                                  LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                             SAMPLE SYMBOL
 WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                              MOISTURE (%)



                                                                                                                                                                  % PASSING 200
                                                                                               DEPTH (FT.)
                                                DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                 REMARKS
                U
                S
                C
                S
                                                Ground Surface
               SM/ SILTY/CLAYEY FINE TO COARSE SAND, FILL
                                                                                               0                                                                                                                        moist
                SC with fine and coarse gravel; major roots (topsoil) to 3"; black                                                                                                                                      dense
               FILL
                                                                                                                             6.2                                 18.7




                      grades with layers of clay up to 2" thick
                                                                                                                             7.6                                 37.4
                                                                                               5

               SM SILTY FINE TO MEDIUM SAND                                                                                                                                                                             moist
                    with some fine and coarse gravel and trace cobbles; black                                                                                                                                           dense
                                                                                                                             13.9                                14.2




               SM/ SILTY/CLAYEY FINE TO MEDIUM SAND                                                                                                                                                                     dense
                                                                                               10                                                                                                                       saturated
               SC with layers of silty clay up to 6" thick; black
                                                                                                                             23.8                                55.4                                                   sidewall caving
                    Refusal at 11.0' on tightly packed boulders.
                    Significant sidewall caving.
                    Installed 1.25” diameter slotted PVC pipe to 16.0’.




                                                                                               15




                                                                                               20




                                                                                               25

   See Subsurface Conditions section in the report for additional information.                                                                                                                                             FIGURE 3H
                                                                TEST PIT LOG                                                                  TEST PIT: TP-3A
                                                                              Page: 1 of 1
CLIENT: J-U-B Engineers, Inc.                                                                PROJECT NUMBER: 3054-004-24
PROJECT: Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision                                                     DATE STARTED: 6/17/24                                                                            DATE FINISHED: 6/17/24
LOCATION: 6178 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay, Utah                                                                                                                                                           GSH FIELD REP.: AF
EXCAVATING METHOD/EQUIPMENT: Sany SV60
GROUNDWATER DEPTH: 11.0' (7/15/24)                                                                                                                                                                                        ELEVATION: ---




                                                                                                                                              DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLASTICITY INDEX
                                                                                                                                                                                  LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                               SAMPLE SYMBOL
 WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                               MOISTURE (%)



                                                                                                                                                                  % PASSING 200
                                                                                                 DEPTH (FT.)
                                                 DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                 REMARKS
               U
               S
               C
               S
                                                 Ground Surface
               GP FINE TO COARSE SANDY FINE AND COARSE GRAVEL
                                                                                                 0                                                                                                                      slightly moist
                   with trace silt and trace clay; major roots (topsoil) to 3"; tan                                                                                                                                     dense



                                                                                                                               1.2                                2.7



                     grades with trace cobbles; black
                                                                                                 5




                     grades brown



                                                                                                 10                                                                                                                     saturated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        sidewall caving
                   Refusal at 11.0' on tightly packed boulders.
                   Significant sidewall caving.
                   Installed 1.25” diameter slotted PVC pipe to 16.0’.




                                                                                                 15




                                                                                                 20




                                                                                                 25

   See Subsurface Conditions section in the report for additional information.                                                                                                                                              FIGURE 3I
                                                               TEST PIT LOG                                                                  TEST PIT: TP-4A
                                                                             Page: 1 of 1
CLIENT: J-U-B Engineers, Inc.                                                               PROJECT NUMBER: 3054-004-24
PROJECT: Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision                                                    DATE STARTED: 6/17/24                                                                            DATE FINISHED: 6/17/24
LOCATION: 6178 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay, Utah                                                                                                                                                          GSH FIELD REP.: AF
EXCAVATING METHOD/EQUIPMENT: Sany SV60
GROUNDWATER DEPTH: Not Encountered (7/15/24)                                                                                                                                                                             ELEVATION: ---




                                                                                                                                             DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                    PLASTICITY INDEX
                                                                                                                                                                                 LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                              SAMPLE SYMBOL
 WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                              MOISTURE (%)



                                                                                                                                                                 % PASSING 200
                                                                                                DEPTH (FT.)
                                                DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                 REMARKS
               U
               S
               C
               S
                                                Ground Surface
               GP/ FINE TO COARSE SANDY FINE AND COARSE GRAVEL
                                                                                                0                                                                                                                      slightly moist
               GM with some silt; major roots (topsoil) to 3"; tan                                                                                                                                                     dense

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sidewall caving
                                                                                                                              1.1                                5.0




                     grades with trace cobbles; black                                           5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sidewall caving

               SP FINE TO COARSE SAND                                                                                                                                                                                  slightly moist
                   with fine and coarse gravel, trace silt, and cobbles; black                                                                                                                                         dense
                                                                                                                              1.9                                2.8
                   Refusal at 8.5' due to sidewall caving.
                   Significant sidewall caving.
                   Installed 1.25” diameter slotted PVC pipe to 8.5’.
                                                                                                10




                                                                                                15




                                                                                                20




                                                                                                25

   See Subsurface Conditions section in the report for additional information.                                                                                                                                             FIGURE 3J
CLIENT: J-U-B Engineers, Inc.
PROJECT: Proposed Amare Vita Subdivision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KEY TO
PROJECT NUMBER: 3054-004-24                                                                                                                                                                                         TEST PIT LOG




                                                                                                                                                                                               DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PLASTICITY INDEX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                                                                                SAMPLE SYMBOL
           WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                                                                                MOISTURE (%)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     % PASSING 200
                                                                                                                                                  DEPTH (FT.)
                                                                                   DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                     REMARKS
                                             U
                                             S
                                             C
                                             S

①                                            ②                                               ③                                                   ④              ⑤               ⑥              ⑦                     ⑧               ⑨                    ⑩                               ⑪
                                                                                                    COLUMN DESCRIPTIONS
  Water Level: Depth to measured groundwater table. See        Liquid Limit (%): Water content at which a soil changes from plastic to
①                                                            ⑨
  symbol below.                                                liquid behavior.
  USCS: (Unified Soil Classification System) Description       Plasticity Index (%): Range of water content at which a soil exhibits
②                                                            ⑩
  of soils encountered; typical symbols are explained below.   plastic properties.
  Description: Description of material encountered; may        Remarks: Comments and observations regarding drilling or sampling
③
  include color, moisture, grain size, density/consistency,  ⑪ made by driller or field personnel. May include other field and laboratory
                                                               test results using the following abbreviations:
④ Depth (ft.): Depth in feet below the ground surface.
  Sample Symbol: Type of soil sample collected at depth                                                                CEMENTATION:                                                                     MODIFIERS:                        MOISTURE CONTENT (FIELD TEST):
⑤
  interval shown; sampler symbols are explained below.                                                                 Weakly: Crumbles or breaks with                                                             Trace                  Dry: Absence of moisture, dusty,
  Moisture (%): Water content of soil sample measured in                                                               handling or slight finger pressure.                                                         <5%                    dry to the touch.
⑥
  laboratory; expressed as percentage of dryweight of                                                                  Moderately: Crumbles or breaks with                                                         Some
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Moist: Damp but no visible water.
  Dry Density (pcf): The density of a soil measured in                                                                 considerable finger pressure.                                                               5-12%
⑦
  laboratory; expressed in pounds per cubic foot.                                                                      Strongly: Will not crumble or break with                                                    With                   Saturated: Visible water, usually
  % Passing 200: Fines content of soils sample passing a                                                               finger pressure.                                                                            > 12%                  soil below water table.
⑧
  No. 200 sieve; expressed as a percentage.
                                                                                                                       Descriptions and stratum lines are interpretive; field descriptions may have been modified to reflect lab test
                                                                                                                       results. Descriptions on the logs apply only at the specific boring locations and at the time the borings were
                                                                                                                       advanced; they are not warranted to be representative of subsurface conditions at other locations or times.

                                                                                                      USCS                                                                                                                                STRATIFICATION:
                                                       MAJOR DIVISIONS                              SYMBOLS
                                                                                                                           TYPICAL DESCRIPTIONS                                                                                                         DESCRIPTION                      THICKNESS
                                                                                     CLEAN                                                                                                                                                                        Seam                up to 1/8"
                                                                                                     GW
UNIFIED SOIL CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM (USCS)




                                                                                                               Well-Graded Gravels, Gravel-Sand Mixtures, Little or No Fines
                                                                                   GRAVELS                                                                                                                                                                      Layer                 1/8" to 12"
                                                                GRAVELS              (little or                Poorly-Graded Gravels, Gravel-Sand Mixtures, Little or No                                                                  Occasional:
                                                               More than 50%
                                                                  of coarse
                                                                                     no fines)       GP        Fines                                                                                                                      One or less per 6" of thickness
                                                                                GRAVELS WITH                                                                                                                                              Numerous;
                                             COARSE-          fraction retained
                                                               on No. 4 sieve.
                                                                                      FINES          GM        Silty Gravels, Gravel-Sand-Silt Mixtures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          More than one per 6" of thickness
                                             GRAINED                               (appreciable
                                              SOILS                              amount of fines)    GC        Clayey Gravels, Gravel-Sand-Clay Mixtures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TYPICAL SAMPLER
                                            More than 50% of                                                                                                                                                                                            GRAPHIC SYMBOLS
                                            material is larger
                                                                  SANDS
                                                                                 CLEAN SANDS         SW        Well-Graded Sands, Gravelly Sands, Little or No Fines
                                             than    No. 200                         (little or
                                                               More than 50%
                                                sieve size.
                                                                   of coarse         no fines)       SP        Poorly-Graded Sands, Gravelly Sands, Little or No Fines                                                                                                       Bulk/Bag Sample

                                                               fraction passing SANDS        WITH                                                                                                                                                                            Standard Penetration Split
                                                                through No. 4         FINES          SM        Silty Sands, Sand-Silt Mixtures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Spoon Sampler
                                                                     sieve.        (appreciable
                                                                                 amount of fines)    SC        Clayey Sands, Sand-Clay Mixtures                                                                                                                              Rock Core

                                                                                                               Inorganic Silts and Very Fine Sands, Rock Flour, Silty or
                                                                                                     ML        Clayey Fine Sands or Clayey Silts with Slight Plasticity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             No Recovery

                                                              SILTS AND CLAYS Liquid                           Inorganic Clays of Low to Medium Plasticity, Gravelly Clays,                                                                                                  3.25" OD, 2.42" ID
                                              FINE-
                                                              Limit less     than 50%                CL        Sandy Clays, Silty Clays, Lean Clays                                                                                                                          D&M Sampler
                                             GRAINED                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.0" OD, 2.42" ID
                                              SOILS                                                  OL        Organic Silts and Organic Silty Clays o f Low Plasticity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D&M Sampler
                                            More than 50% of                                                   Inorganic Silts, Micacious or Diatomacious Fine Sand or Silty
                                            material is smaller
                                                                SILTS AND CLAYS          Liquid
                                                                                                     MH        Soils
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             California Sampler

                                              than No. 200
                                                sieve size.      Limit greater            than       CH        Inorganic Clays of High Plasticity, Fat Clays                                                                                                                 Thin Wall
                                                                             50%
                                                                                                     OH        Organic Silts and Organic Clays of Medium to High Plasticity

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WATER SYMBOL
                                                    HIGHLY ORGANIC SOILS                             PT        Peat, Humus, Swamp Soils with High Organic Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Water Level
                                            Note: Dual Symbols are used to indicate borderline soil classifications.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIGURE 4
0




    FIGURE 6
