Planning Commission
Community Development
Department City of Holladay
801.527.3890

 FILE# 25-4-04                                     REZONE - R-1-87 TO R-1-43
 ADDRESS:                                       DECISION TYPE:
  2232 E Pheasant Way                           Administrative:

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION: 22-15-329-026               Public hearing required. PC shall make a motion of either,
  LOT 2A, DREYFOUS FARMS SUBDIVISION AMENDED.
                                                denial, approval or to continue. All motions require findings
  10286-4305 10353-6929 10612-1589              which support the decision. As directed by ordinance,
                                                applications shall be approved if the Land Use Authority
                                                finds Substantial Evidence of compliance with applicable
                                                requirements. Holladay Ord. 13.06.050.B2 and 13.08
 APPLICANT/REPRESENTATIVE:
  C. Randall Paul                               SITE VICINITY MAP

 PROPERTY OWNER:                                                                 2232 E Pheasant Way with CE-P and Zones
  C. Randall Paul
                                                                       Pheasan




 ZONING:
                                                                                                                                  E Cottonwoo


  R-1-87
                                                                                                                                                                                  E Cott
 GENERAL PLAN DISTRICT:                                                                                 Way



  Country Estates-Protected (CE-P)
 CITY COUNCIL DISTRICT:                                                                                     2232 E PHEASANT W Y



  District #5
 PUBLIC NOTICE DETAILS:



                                                                                                                                                                                  Brentwood
  Published and Mailed 1/24/25
 REQUEST:
                                                                                            R-1-43

  Zone Map Amendment

 APPLICABLE REGULATIONS:
  13.07.030
  General Plan - Country Estates - Protected
                                                                                                                                                           300 E




                                                         1/31/2025                                                                                                 1:4,124
                                                                                                                                         0         0.03 0.05                                  0.1 mi
                                                         FutureLandUse2_3amendOct2020       World Imagery                                0          0.04 0.09                                  0.17 km
                                                              Country Estates - Protected   Low Resolution 15m Imagery
                                                         Zones Sept2022

 EXHIBITS:                                                    R-1-43
                                                                                            High Resolution 60cm Imagery
                                                                                            High Resolution 30cm Imagery      Esri Community Maps Contributors, County of Salt Lake, Utah Geospatial
                                                              R-1-87                                                          Resource Center, © OpenStreetMap, Microsoft, Esri, TomTom, Garmin,
                                                                                            Citations                         SafeGraph, GeoTechnologies, Inc, METI/NASA, USGS, Bureau of Land

  Zone map                                                    Subject Property

                                                              Boundary
                                                                                            1.2m Resolution Metadata
                                                                                                                              Management, EPA, NPS, US Census Bureau, USDA, USFWS, Salt Lake
                                                                                                                              County, Maxar




  Staff Report
  Applicant Narrative
  Applicant supporting doc.
                                                Notes:




 STAFF:
  Carrie Marsh, City Planner

                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                             NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
                                 PROPOSED REZONE
Date:                          Tuesday, February 4th, 2025
Time:                          As close to 6:00 pm as possible
Location:                      City Hall – City Council Chambers
Hearing Body:                  Planning Commission
Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay will Hold a public hearing
before the Planning Commission to consider a zone change application
(File # 25-4-04) submitted by Randall Paul. The Application proposes to
rezone approximately 2.06 acres of property located at 2232 E Pheasant
Way, from the R-1-87Zone to the R-1-43 Zone to facilitate the shifting of a
property line. The Planning Commission, during this meeting, will provide
a recommendation to the City Council. The City Council will make a final
decision at a separately noticed meeting.
*No development is proposed as part of this application. Any future
development, including an approval to move a lot line, would require
separate applications/permits prior to development if the proposed zone
change is approved.
Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm 02/03/2025 to Carrie Marsh,
cmarsh@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments received by the designated
times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.

Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to join this
meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch
the video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay’s website.
ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on 1/24/2025 by order of the Community and Economic Development Director,
Jonathan Teerlink to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your residence,
please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.




                          NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
                              PROPOSED REZONE
  Date:                          Tuesday, February 4 , 2025
                                           th

  Time:                          As close to 6:00 pm as possible
  Location:                      City Hall – City Council Chambers
  Hearing Body:                  Planning Commission
Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay will Hold a public hearing
before the Planning Commission to consider a zone change application
(File # 25-4-04) submitted by Randall Paul. The Application proposes to
rezone approximately 2.06 acres of property located at 2232 E Pheasant
Way, from the R-1-87Zone to the R-1-43 Zone to facilitate the shifting of a
property line. The Planning Commission, during this meeting, will provide a
recommendation to the City Council. The City Council will make a final
decision at a separately noticed meeting.
*No development is proposed as part of this application. Any future
development, including an approval to move a lot line, would require
separate applications/permits prior to development if the proposed zone
change is approved.
Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm 02/03/2025 to Carrie Marsh,
cmarsh@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments received by the designated
times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.

Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to join this
meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch
the video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay’s website.
 ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on 1/24/2025 by order of the Community and Economic Development Director,
 Jonathan Teerlink to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your residence,
 please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.
                                               City of Holladay
                                   Community and Economic Development
                                               Planning and Zoning


                          PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
                                                   February 4, 2025


ITEM # 1
Request: Zone Map Amendment; R-1-87 to R-1-43
Address: 2232 E Pheasant Way, Holladay, Utah
Applicant: C. Randall Paul
File No.: 25-4-04
Notice: Mailed Notice on January 24, 2025
Staff: Carrie Marsh

GOVERNING ORDINANCES:                       13.07.030         AMENDMENT TO THE ZONE MAP
                                            General Plan      Country Estates - Protected

REQUIRED PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION: Legislative
Public hearing to be held. PC shall make a recommendation to City Council to either approve or
disapprove the request. All motions require findings which support the recommendation. Holladay Ord.
13.06.050.F2,13.07

STANDARDS OF CONSIDERATION, FOR or AGAINST:
13.07.030.G.2: Approval Standards:
        2. In reviewing a text or map amendment, the following factors should be considered:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
                 general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
                 development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect abutting properties; and
            d. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, such as, roadways,
                 parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
                 environmental hazard mitigation measures, water supply, and wastewater and refuse collection.

SUMMARY
Property owner and applicant, Randall Paul, has submitted an application to rezone a 2.06-acre (89,734
sq. ft) property located at 2232 E. Pheasant Way, in the R-1-87 zone, which requires a 2-acre minimum
lot size. The request is to rezone from the existing R-1-87 zone to the R-1-43 zone, which has a 1-acre
minimum lot size. The applicant is seeking to rezone so that a lot line adjustment can be made between
his property and the property directly to the east (2242 E Pheasant Way). The lot line proposal (not part
of this application to rezone) would involve shifting 1.01 acres to 2242 E Pheasant Way, with 1.05 acres
to remain for 2232 E Pheasant Way.




Zone Map Amendment: 2232 E. Pheasant Way                                                               Page 1 of 5
                                                City of Holladay
                                    Community and Economic Development
                                                 Planning and Zoning

BACKGROUND
This area of Holladay is known as the estates area, which contains large properties with historical
agricultural land uses. The area is largely serviced by private lanes and has a dense mature tree canopy.
Upon incorporation in 1999, the City intentionally rezoned many areas to larger lots to prevent mass
subdividing of property. It was known that there were existing parcels in the area that did not conform
to the zones. Property owners in the area regularly buy portions from each other and shift lot lines.

 In 2007, a preliminary subdivision and Planned Unit Development for 5 units on 15.75 acres of land
owned by James Dreyfous that involved 2232 E. and 2242 E., along with several other properties was
approved by the Planning Commission, but it was never recorded. In 2014, the property owner wanted
to split one of the lots, but instead of going through a new PUD approval process, decided to pursue a 2-
lot subdivision for what was Lot 4, splitting it into the two lots that meet the regulations of the R-1-87
zone, which are the two lots that exist today at 2232 E. and 2242 E. Pheasant Way.

The two lots now wish to move the lot line between them in the 2-lot subdivision that was approved in
2014, but are unable to due to zoning regulations for the R-1-87 zone, which requires a minimum lot size
of 2-acres. The request for the rezone of 2232 E. would enable that parcel to be reduced to a minimum
of one acre, allowing a lot line change to take place.

Context of surrounding properties:
West – 1-acre lot within the CE-P and zoned R-1-87
North – .87 and .77 acre lots within the CE-P and zoned R-1-87
South – 7.16-acre lot within the CE-P and zoned R-1-87

R-1-43 zoning creates a new minimum lot size to the area and would facilitate an additional subdivision
if a lot line adjustment moves an acre back to the subject property.

GENERAL PLAN APPLICATION/ANAYLSIS
Implementing zone regulations to anticipated growth needs/goals is a particularly important land use decision. As
a legislative action, this decision is guided by the community standards given in the City of Holladay General Plan
(GP, and is supported by the Title 13 of the Land Use Ordnances of Holladay.

The GP has established districts, which are “intended as a guide to any future zoning changes. Zone change
requests should be carefully considered to accommodate expected future growth, to ensure neighborhood
compatibility, and to prevent the destabilization of the existing neighborhoods and los of the existing established
community character, density, or intensity.”
The Property is located in the County Estates – Protected (CE-P) District, which included R-1-87 zoning in it’s core,
with R-1-43 on the perimeter. These are the only two areas in Holladay that have R-1-87 and R-1-43 zoning.
According the Land Use Map 2.3 of General Plan the CE-P. This district is described as follows (Principle 1, pg 16)

           •   Country Estates – Protected (CE-P)
               Suggested zones: R-1-87, R-1-43
               This district is intended to preserve the existing large lot development patterns, the mature tree
               canopy, and the ambience created by estate type development often on private lanes. New develop
               ment can be appropriately accommodated through utilizing unclaimed density by subdivision and




Zone Map Amendment: 2232 E. Pheasant Way                                                                  Page 2 of 5
                                              City of Holladay
                                  Community and Economic Development
                                              Planning and Zoning

              not by rezones.

The GP provides the following further guidance on the supporting stable neighborhoods principle:

        “Lots are allowed to be subdivided when there is vacant or available land within the zone, or
        where rezoning is allowed by the City Council. In recent years, pressure to subdivide properties
        in residential neighborhoods has escalated. Since the impact of such changes could have
        significant repercussions on the existing character and function of the City, it is envisioned that
        as residential development occurs, particularly in the large lot zones (the one- and two-acre
        minimum zones), established land use patterns should not materially change, and that existing
        density should remain.

Text through the General Plan that support this analysis are cited below:

Chapter 1, page 5, Objective 3:
        “To protect and preserve the existing character of the community and incorporate new priorities for the
        future”.

Chapter 2, page 9, Lines 22-35:
       “The City of Holladay has transitioned from a lightly populated agricultural settlement to a
       nearly built-out bedroom community. The physical structure of the City is unique. Older
       neighborhoods reflect their coveted location along the edges of the Big Cottonwood Creek.
       Newer neighborhoods exhibit more typical suburban patterns. Other features that define the
       character of the City include the following:
            • The lack of a discernible street grid typical of other valley centers;
            • Creeks and canals that wind through the maze of lowland cottonwood forests;
            • Sinuous public and private lanes that connect residential areas and commercial
                developments in a gentle, lived-in fashion;
            • Long connecting roadways that provide access to heavily-wooded private lanes that lead
                to large-lot single-family estates;
            • Large and deep residential lots which provide significant private open space;
            • A semi-rural character with continuing agricultural uses including orchards, vegetable
                gardens, horses and other livestock;

Chapter 2, Page 12, Lines 17-22
       “Existing historic neighborhoods were identified by members of the public as requiring better
       protection and preservation. This desire for protection extends beyond the buildings, to small
       town qualities such as: mature tree canopies, large lots, historic land uses, fences, residential
       development along private lanes, waterways, bridges and masonry walls. This is particularly
       important in older residential areas where there is pressure to densify. Current policies regulate
       the teardown of older units as well as allow homeowners to remodel or add responsible
       additions to their homes.”

Chapter 2, Pages 14-16: See separate attachment at the end of this report



Zone Map Amendment: 2232 E. Pheasant Way                                                              Page 3 of 5
                                               City of Holladay
                                    Community and Economic Development
                                                Planning and Zoning

Chapter 8, Sustainability: See separate attachment at the end of this report

REZONE PROPOSAL ANAYLSIS
The following key points provide context of the property that would support a rezone considering the Standards of
Consideration for an amendment to the zone map.

    •   Non-conforming properties in the R-1-87 zone were known at the establishment of the zone.
    •   The R-1-87 zone was created with the specific intent to preserve the existing land use of large, 2-acre
        minimum lots and prevent further subdivision
    •   The General Plan further supports this intent of preservation of existing land uses in the area.
    •   Researching rezone history in the R-1-87 zone, in 2016 an application for a property that was similarly near
        the border of the R-1-87 / R-1-43 zone requesting a rezone from R-1-87 to R-1-43 was denied.
    •   No public comments had been received at the time of this report.
    •   The applicant’s neighborhood meeting was attended by two immediate neighbors who didn’t oppose the
        rezone, but also did not want to see more homes allowed.
    •   Several options including easements, deed restrictions, boundary line agreements (does not affect the legal
        size of the property), and potentially working with Mr. Dreyfous on pursuing the previously abandoned
        PUD exist for the property owner.

REZONE APPROVAL STANDARDS: (13.07.030.G.2)
In reviewing a zone map amendment, the following factors are provided as to be strongly considered:
     a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the General Plan
     b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the
         vicinity of the subject property;
     c. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect abutting properties; and
     d. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, such as, roadways, parks and
         recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, environmental
         hazard mitigation, water supply, and wastewater/refuse collection.

TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTE RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission allow the applicant time to present their petition and to also
gather input from the public via required Public Hearing. Merits of the proposal should be discussed holistically
within the framework of points mentioned above (General Plan guidance). As legislative matters are often
complex, this item may be continued to a later date for further discussion and final recommendation. However, if a
recommendation to the City Council can be derived from tonight’s discussion, a set of findings is required to
accompany the motion, as per ordinance 13.07.030.G.2.

Staff does not support the rezone application as the property is within a Protected area, not intended
for deviation from the zoning that was put in place upon Holladay’s incorporation.

Staff urges the Commission to moderate the discussion around the following points and to forward a
recommendation to the City Council for final consideration.
   a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the General Plan
   b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the
   vicinity
   c. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect abutting properties; and




Zone Map Amendment: 2232 E. Pheasant Way                                                                Page 4 of 5
                                               City of Holladay
                                   Community and Economic Development
                                               Planning and Zoning

   d. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, such as, roadways, parks and
   recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, environmental hazard
   mitigation measures, water supply, and wastewater and refuse collection.
.
STAFF FINDINGS:
    1. A change to the R-1-43 zone is not supported by the General Plan
    2. Reduction in lot size has the future potential to reduce the valuable tree resources that have
        been identified as a high-value commodity for preservation.
    3. Retaining the “semi-rural” feel of the community in the part of Holladay is critical to the long-
        term quality of life and identity of the City.
    4. Changing the zoning in this case would make it difficult for the City to maintain the integrity of
        the large lot zoning in this area in the future.
    5. No change in the R-1-87 zone should occur given the General Plan’s emphasis on retention of
        the land use character of the area.

SUGGESTED MOTIONS

“Motion to forward a recommendation to the City Council to (approve, deny) an application by C.
Randall Paul to amend the Holladay Zoning Map for 2.06 acres of land located at 2232 E. Pheasant
Way. from R-1-87 to R-1-43, based upon the following findings”

“Motion to continue the application by C. Randall Paul to amend the Holladay Zoning Map for 2.06 acres
of land located at 2232 E. Pheasant Way. from R-1-87 to R-1-43 to the next regularly scheduled
meeting”




Zone Map Amendment: 2232 E. Pheasant Way                                                                Page 5 of 5
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation    City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



KEY LAND USE AND URBAN DESIGN ISSUES

After analyzing existing conditions, reviewing existing plans, and considering public input, it is clear that
the key planning issues facing the community are related to stability and change. There is general
satisfaction with the existing patterns, uses, and densities that currently exist, and the general direction
of growth. However, a certain amount of angst exists concerning new development, densification, and
the impact this might have on individual properties, neighborhoods, traffic, and the character of the
City. Since incorporation, Holladay has accomplished some major development, green space and
connectivity objectives with the development of the award winning and highly visited Holladay Village,
gateway monuments, City Hall civic center and park, Knudsen Park, bike paths and facilities, numerous
adopted masterplans and studies, and now the anticipated development of Holladay Hills into a large,
mixed‐use district.

Holladay is already different than it was in 1999. Due to expansion of the City boundaries, population
has significantly changed over time as many new residents have been added to the community. New
construction has occurred in virtually every neighborhood and commercial area of the City, representing
a major investment by property owners and businesses. Moving forward, city leaders and residents
should consider the importance of today’s land use decisions on current and future residents who will
inherit Holladay.

It is the intent of this plan to continue that general vision, which has guided development in past
decades. Significant growth pressure in Holladay, the Salt Lake Valley and the larger region already
exists and will continue as both existing and future generations seek places to work, live, shop and
recreate. The General Plan strives to accommodate new growth while protecting the development
patterns that have made Holladay a unique and desirable place to live and work. This plan recognizes
the need for a greater variety of shopping options within existing commercial areas and an improved tax
base for the community, similar to the Holladay Village model. Higher‐density residential uses have
been introduced as part of mixed‐use developments along busy streets, existing activity nodes and
adjacent to established commercial areas. This is compatible with the existing residential neighborhoods
and provides a greater range of housing options, while creating a more diverse community over time.
Preserving what is best about Holladay and avoiding the negative impacts of unplanned future growth
are the key areas of focus as the City moves forward.


FUTURE LAND USE AND URBAN DESIGN CONCEPT

The City's future development patterns must include the preservation of low‐density residential
neighborhoods, protection and maintenance of historic land uses, structures and places, and the
accommodation of growth and economic development at focused locations. This goal is supported by
the land use districts as shown on Map 2.3 ‐ Future Land Use.




                                                                                                             14
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Map 2.3, Future Land Use




                                                                                                            15
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation     City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



To meet the overall goals of this chapter, future land use decisions should be built upon three core
principles of growth and development:
     Principle 1 ‐ Support Stable Neighborhoods
     Principle 2 ‐ Transform Key Commercial Districts into Better Functioning Destinations
     Principle 3 ‐ Redevelop Smaller Commercial Sites to Meet Future Needs


PRINCIPLE 1 – SUPPORTING STABLE NEIGHBORHOODS

Controlling change in established residential neighborhoods is particularly important. This priority is
successfully supported by the existing ordinance, which includes a range of residential zones to help
ensure that residential growth matches the vision and expectations of the community. Future residential
growth should be accommodated by the utilization of current zoning and densities and not on rezoning.

The following General Plan Districts are intended as a guide to any future zoning changes. Zone change
requests should be carefully considered to accommodate expected future growth, to ensure
neighborhood compatibility, and to prevent the destabilization of the existing neighborhoods and loss of
the existing established community character, density or intensity.

         Country Estates‐Protected (CE‐P)                    Suggested zones: R‐1‐87, R‐1‐43
          This district is intended to preserve the existing large lot development patterns, the mature tree
          canopy, and the ambience created by estate type development often on private lanes. New
          development can be appropriately accommodated through utilizing unclaimed density by
          subdivision and not by rezones.

         Low Density Residential‐Protected ( LDR‐P)                    Suggested zones: R‐1‐21
           This district is intended to preserve existing half‐acre lot development patterns, the mature tree
           canopy, and the ambience created by single‐ family development. New development should be
           appropriately accommodated through utilizing unclaimed density by subdivision and not by
           rezones.

         Low Density Residential‐Stable (LDR‐S)              Suggested Zones: R‐1‐8, R‐1‐10‐, R‐1‐15,
           This district is intended to support a mix of single‐ family residential development that has been
           established by historic development patterns. New development should be accommodated
           through utilizing unclaimed density. Rezones within the suggested zone list may be appropriate
           where increased density will not destabilize the existing neighborhood.

         Medium Density Residential‐Two Units (MDR‐T)             Suggested Zones: R‐1‐4, R‐2‐8, R‐2‐10
          This district is intended to accommodate small‐lot single family and two‐family attached unit
          development with slightly higher densities than the LDR‐S districts. New development should be
          accommodated through utilizing unclaimed density where possible. Proposed rezones within
          the suggested zone list may be appropriate where increased density will not destabilize the
          existing neighborhood.

         Medium Density Residential‐Stable (MDR‐S) Suggested Zones: RM
          This district is intended to accommodate traditional multi‐family developments where increased
          density has been previously established or where single‐family development is no longer viable.


                                                                                                              16
Chapter 8‐ Natural Resources, and Sustainability                City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




CHAPTER 8 NATURAL RESOURCES, and
          SUSTAINABILITY

INTRODUCTION

Holladay’s unique and distinctive character is prized both by visitors and by its residents. From the early
days of settlement in the mid‐1800’s to today, residents have valued the natural resources found in the
area, which are centered around the foothills of Mount Olympus as well as, Big Cottonwood Creek,
Spring Creek, the Upper Canal, Neff’s Canyon Drainage, the Salt Lake City canals, and other and irrigation
ditches. Together with the beautiful green canopy of mature trees that thrive along their banks, these
natural resources create the sense that this is a "green jewel" to be coveted and protected. The view of
Mount Olympus dominates the skyline and many area residents consider this to be the City's most
important visual resource and a source of community identity.

This chapter of the General Plan addresses the important role that natural resources contribute to the
long term health and resiliency of the City. It concludes with the identification of community issues and
key actions to ensure the City's sustainability as it continues to grow and change over the years.

NATURAL RESOURCES
Holladay has a broad range of natural resources and these resources need careful protections against
future inappropriate development. To guide future decision‐makers the following overall goals of this
chapter are intended to:
    1. Ensure that future growth and redevelopment in the City respects these natural features,
         paying heed to natural processes that can affect the health, safety, and public welfare of
         residents and visitors.
    2. Protect the riparian areas, waterways and habitats that currently give Holladay its unique
         character.
    3. Protect and renew the mature tree canopy, and;
    4. Protect steep hillsides and slopes from development.

The majority of land in the City is relatively flat, although there are numerous sloped areas that make
views of the valley and mountains possible. Soil types vary and high water tables are common. Steep
slopes and the presence of the Wasatch Fault Zone paralleling Highland Drive create development
constraints that must be considered during any site planning process. Map 8.1 shows the City’s
identified Natural Hazards.




                                                                                                          67
Chapter 8‐ Natural Resources, and Sustainability          City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Map 8.1‐ City of Holladay Natural Hazards/Waterways Map




                                                                                                    68
Chapter 8‐ Natural Resources, and Sustainability                City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Holladay is served by two separate watersheds ‐ the Big Cottonwood Creek/Jordan River Watershed and
the Millcreek/Jordan River Watershed – both of which are managed by multiple agencies and through a
   range of control mechanisms instituted at county, state and federal levels. A network of natural and
       manmade water resources exist within these watersheds. Big Cottonwood Creek, the largest
  watershed, extends diagonally from the southeast to northwest edges of the community, dividing the
 City into two roughly‐equal halves. There are also several major canals in the City, including the Jordan
    and Salt Lake Canal and the Upper Canal, both of which were constructed by Mormon pioneers for
irrigation purposes during the mid‐1800’s. These important waterways which also act as a major part of
             the current storm drain system are shown on the City's Natural Hazards Map, 8.1.

 In addition to conveying and channeling water through the community, these waterways help to
enhance the integrity of the local environment by providing beauty, flood storage, stream bank
stabilization, sediment trapping, pollutant trapping/attenuation, food chain support, fishery and wildlife
habitat, and natural/passive recreation opportunities. The natural beauty of riparian areas also makes
them attractive for development. Unfortunately, such changes often impair the value of the riparian
ecosystem, with flooding being one of the most immediate and direct impacts to nearby residents.

Holladay’s unique environment also provides prime habitat for many native species of birds, fish and
animals. Habitats range from those on the steep foothills to those along the Big Cottonwood Creek
bottoms. Open fields and year‐round stream flow all contribute to varied and abundant wildlife in the
city.

Mature trees and healthy vegetation provide an incredible array of benefits for Holladay. In addition to
providing shade, privacy, habitat and food, trees provide less obvious benefit, such as helping to control
erosion, mitigating noise, enhancing the sense of well‐being, and adding aesthetic value. The forests of
mature trees, which characterize many of the established neighborhoods in Holladay, are important to
the community in general. Frequently mentioned by residents during the planning process, they are
highly valued and in need of preservation and rejuvenation. Map 8.2, illustrates the dramatic change in
old growth tree canopy and its associated riparian areas along Big Cottonwood Creek that has occurred
over the last twenty years. These losses can be attributed to natural attrition as well as, increasing
development within the corridor. The City faces a major challenge balancing public outcry to preserve
trees with the right of property owners/developers to remove trees located on their properties.

Another vital issue regarding trees in Holladay, especially those heavily forested areas in the Historic
Community Core, (south of Murray Holladay Road, and north of 6200 South between Holladay Blvd and
Highland Drive) is the possibility of a major fire. These areas are often characterized by diseased and
weakened trees that have abundant, dead undergrowth. Additionally, much of this residential area is
accessed by narrow private lanes serviced by small, aging waterlines and low water pressure. This
combination of factors may contribute to the danger of significant damage to property and persons if a
major fire event were to occur.




                                                                                                          69
Chapter 8‐ Natural Resources, and Sustainability   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Map 8.3‐ Changes in the Mature Tree Canopy




                                                                                             70
                                                  2232 E Pheasant Way with CE-P and Zones

                                       Pheasa nt W
                                                           ay




                                                                                                                      E Cottonwood L n


                          Phe asa nt Ln




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ln
                                                                                                                                                                                                      d
                                                                                                                                                                                                 oo
                                                                                                                                                                                  E Cott o n w
                                                                               Ph

                                                                                  ea
                                                                                       s a nt
                                                                                                Way




                                                                                                 2232 E PHEASANT WY



                              A p p le
                                         w o od
                                                  Av
                                                       e




                                                                                                                                                                 Brentw ood D r
                                                       n
                                                  ri L
                                                  ng
                                              ha
                                            S




                                                                            R-1-43
                                            Bi g C ot to n wo
                                                                od Tann er N or t h Ditc h E x
                                                                                                 te
                                                                                                      ns ion

ow
     nA
          ve                                                                                                                                                                                      Oa
                                                                                                                                                                                                          khi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ll
               ay
           L in d e n W




                                                                                Fardow
                                                                                            n Ave
                              en Way




                                                                                                                                          S 2300 E
                            S L in d




           1/31/2025                                                                                                                                 1:4,124
                                                                                                                             0         0.03          0.05                              0.1 mi
           FutureLandUse2_3amendOct2020                                    World Imagery                                     0          0.04          0.09                               0.17 km
                          Country Estates - Protected                      Low Resolution 15m Imagery
           Zones Sept2022
                                                                           High Resolution 60cm Imagery
                          R-1-43
                                                                           High Resolution 30cm Imagery           Esri Community Maps Contributors, County of Salt Lake, Utah Geospatial
                          R-1-87                                                                                  Resource Center, © OpenStreetMap, Microsoft, Esri, TomTom, Garmin,
                                                                           Citations                              SafeGraph, GeoTechnologies, Inc, METI/NASA, USGS, Bureau of Land
                          Subject Property                                                                        Management, EPA, NPS, US Census Bureau, USDA, USFWS, Salt Lake
                                                                           1.2m Resolution Metadata               County, Maxar

                          Boundary
File #25-4-04 Rezone Request R-1-87 to R-1-43 at 2232 E Pheasant Way

                                                         R-1-10



                                              Low Density Residential - Protected

                                                                  P                                                                                        P
                                                 R-1-10




                                                                                                   R-1-43
                                         R-2-10              P
                             R-1-21


                                                   P                                                                                                                          P



                                                         R-1-21



      R-2-10                        R-2-10


                                                         R-1-10                                              Country Estates - Protected


                                              R-2-10                                                                       R-1-87


                                          Low Density Residential - Protected
     R-1-21                                 R-2-10
                                                                                          R-1-43
                                                         P

                                    R-2-10                       R-1-10
                                                                                     R-1-21



                                                                      Low Density Residential - Protected
                                                                           R-1-10


                                                                            P
                                                                                                                       R-1-43


                                                                                                                                                       R-1-43
                                                                                                   Low Density Residential - Protected

  1/24/2025                                                                                                                                    1:16,496
                                                                                                                          0          0.1         0.2                     0.4 mi
          Future Land Use: Country Estates - Protected             R-1-15
          Future Land Use: Low Density Residential - Protected     R-1-21                                                 0        0.15        0.3                    0.6 km
          Subject Property                                         R-1-43
          Parcels                                                  R-1-8
  Zones                                                            R-1-87
          C-1                                                      R-2-10
          C-2                                                      R-2-8
                                                                                                               Esri, NASA, NGA, USGS, FEMA, Esri Community Maps Contributors, County
          HCR                                                      R-M                                         of Salt Lake, Utah Geospatial Resource Center, Esri, TomTom, Garmin,
          LU                                                       R/M-U                                       SafeGraph, GeoTechnologies, Inc, METI/NASA, USGS, Bureau of Land
          NC                                                                                                   Management, EPA, NPS, US Census Bureau, USDA, USFWS
                                                                   City Boundary
          P                                                        World Hillshade
          R-1-10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W a llace L n
                                     2232 EHolladay
                                            Pheasant Way Rezone TRC Response




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Wasat ch Blvd
                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                               an




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                               Ln




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S N a ni l oa D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              h D
                                                                                                                                                                                  de
                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                      bo




                                                                                                                                                                                    rL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Hig
                                                                                                 Ar
    Hi g h




                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                                                                                               Wr en R d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ile
                                                                                       e wm




                                                                                      V
                                                                                      i
      la n




                                                                                              ont




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M
                                                                                                    St
             d
              C
                     ir


                                Hi
                                 gh
                                     la n




                t Dr




                                                                                                                           Ln
              on




                                                                                                                                            S Holl a
                                         d Dr




          M                                                                                                                                                                    Casto Ln




                                                                                                                       ood
     r
   M oo




                                                                                                                                                da




                                                                                                                     onw
                                                                                                                                                       y
                                                                                                                                                           B
                                                                                                                                                               lv




                                                                                                                    ot t
                                                                                                                                                                    d




                                                                                                              S C
             Spr i ng Ln                                                                                                        H
                                                                                                                                    a




                                                                                                                                    ve
                                                                                                                                        n
                                                                                                                                        Ln
                                                                                                 R-1-43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Wasa tc h B l v
                                                                                                  Walker Ln



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Olympus
             E 5600 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Shadows
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Estates

                                                                                                                                 CE-P
                                                                                                                                R-1-87
                                                                           2232 E PHEASANT WY
                                     Highland Dr




                                                                                                                                                                                          S Ho llada y B l vd

                                                                                                                                                                                                                R-1-43
                                                                     Fa
                                                                          rdo         R-1-43
                                                                                wn
                                                                                     A ve



                               152




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Wa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             sat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Old Mill Golf




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ch Bl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Course
                                                                                                                           E 6200 S                                                                                                 215
                                              Highla nd D r




                                                                                                                            R-1-43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  vd
                                                                                                                                                               R-1-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2 00
                 E 6400 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                215




                                                                                                                             E 6600 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          00 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ig
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S 30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nw
                                                                                                         S 2300 E




             G                                                                                                                  E 6710 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Wa
                                                      High land Dr




                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     oo
                 ee




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      sa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1:24,657
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dC




1/21/2025
                     nf




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tc
                      ie




                                                                                                                                                                                  0                             0.15                 0.3                                                       0.6 mi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a n yo n R d
                          ld




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bl




FutureLandUse2_3amendOct2020
                          Way




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  vd




                                                                                     World Imagery                                                                                0                             0.25                  0.5                                                            1 km
       Country Estates - Protected                                                   Low Resolution 15m Imagery
Zones Sept2022
                                                                                     High Resolution 60cm Imagery
       R-1-43
                                                                                     High Resolution 30cm Imagery                                                       Salt Lake County, Earthstar Geographics, County of Salt Lake, Utah
       R-1-87                                                                                                                                                           Geospatial Resource Center, Esri, TomTom, Garmin, SafeGraph,
                                                                                     Citations                                                                          GeoTechnologies, Inc, METI/NASA, USGS, Bureau of Land Management,
       Subject Property                                                                                                                                                 EPA, NPS, US Census Bureau, USDA, USFWS
                                                                                     4.8m Resolution Metadata
       Boundary
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ
ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŝƚǇŽĨ,ŽůůĂĚĂǇ
ϴϬϭ͘ϱϮϳ͘ϯϴϵϬ

 DATE: 11.19.2024                        COMMISSION MEETING MINUTES
 4                               /^/KEdzW͗
  n/a                                    Administrative/Procedural:

      4 n/a                 Commission shall approve, approve with changes or continue
                                         to a later date the agenda item




   6  4
  City of Holladay Planning Commission   ^/ds//E/dzDW

  4
  n/a

      4
  n/a

 'EZ>W>E/^dZ/d4
  n/a
 /dzKhE/>/^dZ/d͗
  N/A
 Wh>/EKd/d/>^4
  n/a
 4
  Adoption of Meeting Minutes

      4
  UCA§52-4-203, 206
  2.01.080
  13.06.030


   4




                                         EŽƚĞƐ͗

                                         Corrections made according to commission direction on 12-1-2020


 4
  Carrie Marsh, City Planner

                                                                                                           ?
                                       MINUTES OF THE HOLLADAY CITY
                                       PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                             Tuesday November 19th, 2024
                                                       5:30 p.m.
                                              Holladay Municipal Center
                                                 4580 South 2300 East


ATTENDANCE
Planning Commission Members:                               City Staff:
Dennis Roach, Chair                                        Jonathan Teerlink, CED Director
Karianne Prince, Vice Chair                                Carrie Marsh, Senior Planner
Paul Cunningham                                            Brad Christopherson, Legal Counsel
Jill Fonte
Brain Berndt



Work Session
Chairman Roach called the Work Session to order at 5:36 pm. He noted that all of the Planning
Commissioners were present with the exception of Commissioner Ginger Vilchinsky and Angela Gong.
City Staff and legal counsel were also present. One item on the Regular Meeting agenda include a rezone
request located at 2091 E Murray Holladay Rd.

Senior Planner, Carrie Marsh presented the rezone item stating that it was one similar to previous
applications as a standard rezone from RM to PO. Mrs. Marsh described the applicant as the property
owner, who has some additional uses that they'd like to utilize in the PO zone. Since those uses are not
allowed in the RM zone, a massage therapist, fall under personal services, a business use only allowed in
the PO zone. Mrs. Marsh went on to explain the history of the property as originally built and approved as
an office building in RM zone, now only the uses do not align.

Chairman Roach inquired as to if anything else is being done with the property, other than needing to
obtain a business. Stating that there's no changes happening. It's literally just a use allowance that
basically taking something that's existing, non-conforming in uses and bringing it up compliance like
several others of these we have seen in the past

Mrs. Marsh clarified nothing is being done to this property just expanding uses to beyond just an office
use. So, and then in the future the property owner could lease to businesses like dental laboratories,
medical laboratories or Professional Services like salons.

Chairman Roach reviewed meeting minutes on the agenda which the commission had no comments on.

Chairman Roach requested staff to present on any issues of benefit for the Commission that would fill in
for 15 minutes of the work session. Legal Counsel, Brad Christopherson provided insight on
commissioner ethics and procedures on reviewing Conditional Use permit. Substantial evidence was



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting- */*/10                                                       1
discussed as a critical element of approved or disapproving a conditional use permit as well as appropriate
conditions the commission could apply.

Commissioner _____ asked to clarify a Traffic Study and when it can be used as a condition of approval.
What kind of elements are provided in a traffic study

CED Director Jonathan Teerlink provided an overview of elements in a traffic study and when it is used
during review of a redevelopment project based on whether or no the new use proposed would
detrimentally impact local traffic service.

Mr. Christopherson continued to provide guidance on creating reasonable conditions that are defensible.
Condition to mitigate potential impacts are normally provided in the staff reports.

Chair Roach closed the Work Session and the Planning Commission moved to convene the regular
meeting.

CONVENE REGULAR MEETING
Chairman Roach called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. He noted that all of the Planning Commissioners
were present with the exception of Commissioner Ginger Vilchinsky and Angela Gong for the benefit of
the public. He stated that as no members of the public are present for public hearing, he omitted opening
statements.

1.       PUBLIC HEARINGS (Published/Noticed to Neighborhood only)
         1.1  Zone Map Amendment – Rezone from RM to PO – 2091 E Murray Holladay Rd
              (Discussion and Possible Decision) – Planner, Carrie Marsh.

Senior Planner, Carrie Marsh, gave overview of the staff report for a rezone application at 2091 E Murray
Holladay Rd, made by the applicant and property owner, Bob Neslen. Mrs. Marsh described that the
current zone in RM and the building currently and has historically served as an office building with office
uses permitted under the former version of the RM zone.

Mrs. Marsh gave history of the PO Zone as created in 2018 with the expectation that office building
owners would take advantage of expanded use allowances not previous allowed in the RM zone.
Applications would be accepted by the property owners.

Chairman Roach thanked staff and after no questions from the commission as the applicant to present.

Bob Neslen stated he didn’t have anything to add and was appreciative of the thorough report.

Chairman Roach thanked the applicant and after no questions from the commission opened the public
hearing. Seeing non, Chairman Roach closed the Public Hearing and opened the discussion on the
application.

Commissioner Brian Berndt queried staff to the difference between the RM and the PO site development
standards

Mrs. Marsh described the building height increase to 40 feet and the differences in setback standards as
they related to buffering of residential zones. The intent of PO development is to push the building to the

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting- */*/10                                                      2
street instead on building in the middle of the property. Parking standards stay the same with only
differenced in structure and use.

Commissioner Karianne Prince moved, to forward a recommendation to that the City Council approve
the rezone application by Bob Neslen to amend the Holladay Zoning map for .56 acres of land located
at 2091 E Murray Holladay road from RM to PO subject to the finding provided in the packet – as
follows:

Findings:
      1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the General
          Plan
      2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development
          in the vicinity
      3. The proposed amendment intends to perpetuate, or maintain stability of existing uses at the
          address
      4. The proposed amendment would not adversely affect abutting properties; and
      5. Facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, such as, roadways, parks and
          recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage systems,
          environmental hazard mitigation measures, water supply, and wastewater and refuse
          collection are considered adequate.

Commissioner Brian Berndt seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Brain Berndt -Aye, Jill Fonte -
Aye, Paul Cunningham - Aye, Karianne Prince - Aye, Dennis Roach - Aye


ACTION ITEMS

1.       Approval of Minutes – May 7, and October 1.

Commissioner Roach moved to APPROVE the Meeting Minutes, as presented, from May 7th 2024, and
October 1st 2024. Motions was not seconded. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.


Commissioner Roach moved to adjourn.                   The motion passed by the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at 6:33 p.m.


I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate and complete record of the Holladay City
Planning Commission meeting held Tuesday, November 19th 2024



Jonathan Teerlink
CED, Director



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting- */*/10                                                  3
Minutes approved: */*/10




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting- */*/10   4
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ
ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŝƚǇŽĨ,ŽůůĂĚĂǇ
ϴϬϭ͘ϱϮϳ͘ϯϴϵϬ

 DATE: 12.2.2024                         COMMISSION MEETING MINUTES
 4                               /^/KEdzW͗
  n/a                                    Administrative/Procedural:

      4 n/a                 Commission shall approve, approve with changes or continue
                                         to a later date the agenda item




   6  4
  City of Holladay Planning Commission   ^/ds//E/dzDW

  4
  n/a

      4
  n/a

 'EZ>W>E/^dZ/d4
  n/a
 /dzKhE/>/^dZ/d͗
  N/A
 Wh>/EKd/d/>^4
  n/a
 4
  Adoption of Meeting Minutes

      4
  UCA§52-4-203, 206
  2.01.080
  13.06.030


   4




                                         EŽƚĞƐ͗

                                         Corrections made according to commission direction on 12-1-2020


 4
  Carrie Marsh, City Planner

                                                                                                           ?
                                 MINUTES OF THE HOLLADAY CITY
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                       Tuesday December 3rd, 2024
                                                5:30 p.m.
                                        Holladay Municipal Center
                                          4580 South 2300 East


ATTENDANCE
Planning Commission Members:                          City Staff:
Dennis Roach, Chair                                   Jonathan Teerlink, CED Director
Angela Gong                                           Carrie Marsh, Senior Planner
Paul Cunningham                                       Brad Christopherson, Legal Counsel
Ginger Vilchinski
Brain Berndt




CONVENE REGULAR MEETING
Chairman Roach called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.


ACTION ITEMS

1.     Approval of 2025 Planning Commission Meeting

Commissioner Paul Cunningham clarified with staff various markups on the 2025 meeting calendar. No other
discussion was had by the commission.

Commissioner Paul Cunningham, moved to APPROVE the 2025 meeting calendar, as presented

Commissioner Angela Gong, seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

2.     Ratification of prior approvals of Minutes –
       Jan – 9th & 23rd, Feb – 6th & 20th , March – 5th & 19th, April – 2nd & 16th , May – 7th & 21st , June –
       4th & 25th, July – 16th, August – 20th , September – 3rd, October – 1st

Legal Counsel, Brad Christopherson reviewed the issue of providing seconds on all motions. Previous
approvals to meeting minutes listed were not recorded as having a second to the approval motion. Mr.
Christopherson continued to explain a motion to ratify approved meeting minutes of the dates in the agenda is
needed – with a second.

Commissioner Cunningham moved to ratify the previously approved Meeting Minutes from 2024 as
presented in on the agenda

Commissioner Berndt seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.
3.     Planning Commissioner Training –

Legal Counsel, Brad Christopherson provided the commission’s required training session. Mr.
Christopherson reviewed the topic of conditional use permits as multiple of his clients have experienced
challenges that arise because of conditional use permits and sometimes the litigation involved.

Mr. Christopherson provided an overview and detail of case law, Staker vs. the Town of Springdale.
Elements of the applicant’s proposal and the Town’s final actions were described as an example of an issue
that may similar to applications in Holladay

Mr. Christopherson provided insight as to how commissioner approvals should be based on findings of fact.
Explaining that, staff reports will typically have findings especially for conditional uses. He described that
these are suggested findings, but commissioners have the authority to bring in their own findings. The
importance of findings is highlight by Mr. Christopherson is critical, especially in the case of a denial. As
most of the time approvals do not get challenged, as in, appealed. Findings provide substantial evidence. The
definition of substantial evidence is provided to the commission as, evidence where it's supportive, where a
reasonable mind could reach that conclusion based on the evidence that was presented.

Mr. Christopherson presented the commission with various examples of approvals with findings that
provided this level of substantial evidence included the resolution of the matter in the case of Staker vs. the
Town of Springdale. Making the point that these are the types of applications that result in litigation.

In addition, Mr. Christopherson described the staff’s role. City staff's job was described as identification of
any number of issues and impacts a conditional use could have and to provide, in the staff report, findings
that will be defensible as substantial evidence. Mr. Christopherson clarified that staff findings are provided,
not because there is may be predetermined outcome or guiding a decision but because staff knows certain
areas can be very controversial, so the staff's job assist in discovering substantial evidence, to assist the
Planning Commission in making findings that can be supported.

Commissioner Berndt queried as to what LUDMA’s (Land Use and Development Management Act)
definition of what is minimum mitigation is or does LUDMA define a point where mitigation is met. Mr.
Christopherson explained that a standard or condition must be objective enough to be measurable upon
confirming compliance. The notion was further clarified when a question was raised on altering codified
standards. Mr. Christopherson explained that as the Land Use authority you have the authority to impose
reasonable conditions.

Commissioner Roach asked if the applicant needs to agree to commissioner findings. Mr. Teerlink answered,
no, because they have the right to appeal that decision.

Commissioner Berndt commented on how the commission can use a reasonable standard to address public
claims of negative impact, and implied that the commission would hope to ensures legal counsel would
providing guidance on those making a final decision so as to defend a challeng. Mr. Christopherson
supported the notion. Mr. Teerlink provide insight on commissioner options to recess or continuing a
meeting to a separate date, during a tense comment period.

Senior Planner, Carrie Marsh stated that transparency main reason why we hold public meetings, to gain
additional feedback. Sometime the staff may miss things or don't realize what some of the impacts might be,
and so it's nice to have that second check with both the Commission and the public involved.

Senior Planner Carrie Marsh clarified that October 29th minutes were not part of the ratification as they have
yet to be approved. It was decided by the commission to continue the meeting minutes of October 29th to the
next meeting.
Commissioner Roach moved to adjourn.

Commissioner Berndt seconded the motion. The motion passed by the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at 6:51 p.m.


I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate and complete record of the Holladay City
Planning Commission meeting held Tuesday, December 3rd 2024



Jonathan Teerlink
CED, Director


Minutes approved: */*/10




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting- */*/10                                               3
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ
ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŝƚǇŽĨ,ŽůůĂĚĂǇ
ϴϬϭ͘ϱϮϳ͘ϯϴϵϬ

 DATE: 1.7.2025                          COMMISSION MEETING MINUTES
 4                               /^/KEdzW͗
  n/a                                    Administrative/Procedural:

      4 n/a                 Commission shall approve, approve with changes or continue
                                         to a later date the agenda item




   6  4
  City of Holladay Planning Commission   ^/ds//E/dzDW

  4
  n/a

      4
  n/a

 'EZ>W>E/^dZ/d4
  n/a
 /dzKhE/>/^dZ/d͗
  N/A
 Wh>/EKd/d/>^4
  n/a
 4
  Adoption of Meeting Minutes

      4
  UCA§52-4-203, 206
  2.01.080
  13.06.030


   4




                                         EŽƚĞƐ͗

                                         Corrections made according to commission direction on 12-1-2020


 4
  Carrie Marsh, City Planner

                                                                                                           ?
 1                                                  DRAFT
 2
 3                              MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
 4                               PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
 5
 6                                        Tuesday, January 7, 2025
 7                                                6:00 PM
 8                                         City Council Chambers
 9                                          4580 South 2300 East
10                                             Holladay, Utah
11
12   ATTENDANCE:
13
14   Planning Commission Members:                           City Staff:
15
16   Karianne Prince, Vice-Chair                            Carrie Marsh, City Planner
17   Dennis Roach                                           Jonathan Teerlink, Community and Economic
18   Ginger Vilchinsky                                             Development Director
19   Angela Gong                                            Jared Bunch, Public Works Director and City
20   Paul Cunningham                                               Engineer
21   Jill Fonte                                             Jayme Blakesley, City Attorney
22   Brian Berndt
23
24   WORK SESSION
25   Vice-Chair Karianne Prince called the Work Session to order at 5:30 p.m. The Regular Meeting
26   agenda items were discussed. Community and Economic Development Director, Jonathan Teerlink,
27   shared information about Item 3 on the agenda, which relates to a General Plan and Ordinance
28   Amendment. During the Regular Meeting, the Planning Commission will make a recommendation
29   on the appropriateness of an amendment to Title 13 to standardize the widths in a section of Murray
30   Holladay Road as well as the appropriateness of a General Plan amendment foreseeing the width in
31   perpetuity. Commissioner Dennis Roach asked about that section of Murray Holladay Road. He
32   wanted to know if it widens again after it narrows out. Mr. Teerlink explained that when specific
33   cross-sections of roads are looked at, it is done in a Small Area Master Plan scenario. That is the
34   reason there are different cross-sections for the Holladay Village in particular. Those are used to
35   determine the widths and standard dimensions for items such as sidewalks and gutters.
36
37   Commissioner Jill Fonte asked if it is appropriate for the Planning Commission to consider an
38   administrative change, like what has been proposed because a General Plan update is about to occur.
39   Mr. Teerlink noted that the applicant can speak to the timeliness of the request. Commissioner Brian
40   Berndt wondered whether Murray Holladay Road changes to a collector east of Holladay Boulevard.
41   Mr. Teerlink reported that it maintains a collector status on Clearview Street.
42
43   Commissioner Paul Cunningham wanted to know if there is another area where the proposed change
44   will create a similar situation. Mr. Teerlink explained that in this case, the focus is on a specific
45   section. However, the idea of the General Plan is for it to apply in various locations. The City Council
46   can then use that standard to address similar issues City-wide. Commissioner Cunningham asked

     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 01/07/2025

                                                        1
 1   what the argument is to amend the General Plan in order to address one specific location. Mr. Teerlink
 2   stated that the Commission can pose that question to the applicant during the Regular Meeting.
 3
 4   City Planner, Carrie Marsh, shared a Landscape Plan with the Planning Commission for Item 2.
 5   Commissioner Roach wanted to see whether there would be trees placed near the units or not.
 6   Additional discussions were had about the placement of the landscaping and what has been proposed.
 7
 8   The Planning Commission took a five-minute break before the Regular Meeting.
 9
10   CONVENE REGULAR MEETING – Public Welcome and Opening Statement by Commission
11   Chair.
12   Vice-Chair Prince called the Regular Meeting to order at approximately 6:00 p.m. Commissioner
13   Ginger Vilchinsky read the Opening Statement aloud for the benefit of those present.
14
15   ACTION ITEMS
16   1.      “Highwood” – Preliminary Plat – 1919 East Baywood Drive and 5821 Highland Drive
17           (R-1-21 and R-2-10). Preliminary Level Review and Consideration of Development
18           Details by Property Owner, Ashley Woolley. Review of this 0.94 Acre, Two-Lot
19           Subdivision is Conducted According to Residential Subdivision Development Standards
20           According to Holladay Ordinance §13.10a. File #24-1-10.
21   City Planner, Carrie Marsh, presented the Staff Report and explained that this is a Preliminary Plat
22   application for property located at 1919 East Baywood Drive and 5821 Highland Drive. She reported
23   that this is a proposal for a subdivision. The property was previously two properties owned by two
24   separate owners. The owner of the Baywood Drive property purchased the Highland Drive property
25   and combined those parcels in 2013. The current property owner wants to undo the combination and
26   re-establish the two separate parcels that were there originally. The applicant has gone through a
27   rezone process so the front portion of the original parcel is compliant with minimum lot size
28   requirements and the Highland Drive Master Plan. There is no proposal to redevelop either property.
29   Ms. Marsh noted that the Baywood Drive property will be sold and will have a separate owner. The
30   access to that property will only be on Baywood Drive. The access to the front property will only be
31   on Highland Drive. The applicant, Ashley Woolley, was not at the Planning Commission Meeting.
32
33   Vice-Chair Prince opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The hearing was closed.
34
35   Commissioner Angela Gong disclosed that she has a family connection and will recuse herself from
36   the vote. Vice-Chair Prince felt that the application made sense and expressed her support. Since
37   there is no development proposed at this time, only a Preliminary Plat approval is required.
38
39   Commissioner Roach moved to APPROVE the Preliminary Plat application by Ashley Woolley for
40   “Highwood Subdivision,” a two-lot subdivision, located at 1919 East Baywood Drive and 5428
41   South Highland Drive in the R-1-21 and R-2-10 Zones, based upon the following findings:
42
43          1.      Development details required for a Preliminary and Final Plat have been submitted
44                  and reviewed by the TRC.
45


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 01/07/2025

                                                       2
 1          2.      Each of the lots shall comply with the minimum width and area for single-family
 2                  home development in the R-1-21 and R-2-10 zones.
 3
 4          3.      The development complies with the General Plan.
 5
 6          4.      The required submittals for preliminary subdivision development have been
 7                  provided where applicable and have been found to be complete and acceptable.
 8
 9          5.      Fire access is existing, labeled, and approved by the UFA.
10
11          6.      Vehicular access and utility easements are shown on the plat.
12
13   Also, within one year and in accordance with 13.10A.070.E, to complete administrative review and
14   approval of the FINAL PLAT by the Community and Economic Development Director - following
15   a positive, written recommendation from the TRC.
16
17   Commissioner Berndt seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Cunningham-Aye;
18   Commissioner Vilchinsky-Aye; Commissioner Fonte-Aye; Commissioner Roach-Aye;
19   Commissioner Gong-Recused; Commissioner Berndt-Aye; Vice-Chair Prince-Aye. The motion
20   passed unanimously.
21
22   2.      “Villages at Cottonwood Creek” Subdivision – Preliminary Plat - 4821 South 1740 East
23           (R-M). Preliminary Level Review and Consideration of Development Details by
24           Application/Property Owner Brad Reynolds. Review of this 0.57-acre Development is
25           Conducted According to Residential Subdivision Development Standards According to
26           Holladay Ordinance §13.10a. File #24-1-09.
27   Ms. Marsh presented the Staff Report and explained that this is an application for a subdivision in the
28   R-M (Residential Multi-Family) Zone. The property is located at 4821 South 1740 East. The project
29   previously received Site Plan approval for the addition of nine townhome units on the site. Access
30   has been reviewed by the Fire Marshal, Public Works, and Engineering. There have been a few
31   iterations of the access. Ms. Marsh shared the final iteration, as was approved during the Site Plan
32   approval. The subdivision process takes each of the nine townhome units and creates a separate legal
33   property for each unit. What is proposed now is in line with the existing approval, as it will create
34   legal properties for each of the townhome units. The property owner can address any questions.
35
36   The applicant, Brad Reynolds, introduced himself to the Planning Commission. Since the last
37   Planning Commission Meeting on the item, four additional parking stalls have been added to address
38   Commissioner concerns. The necessary permits have been obtained through Salt Lake County Flood
39   Control, the Army Corps of Engineers, and the State of Utah Engineering. There is a need in Holladay
40   to have a for-sale product that is a little more affordable. He feels this will be beneficial to the City.
41   Mr. Reynolds explained that the intention is to finish the units with granite or quartz countertops and
42   two-toned paint. The idea is to make the units high quality, but still maintain some affordability.
43
44   Commissioner Roach asked about the façade on the outside. Mr. Reynolds reported that there will
45   be a considerable amount of stone and Hardie plank. There will be no stucco. It will have an
46   aluminum soffit and fascia. With those elements, there will be long-term benefits, as the units will

     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 01/07/2025

                                                         3
 1   look aesthetically pleasing in the future. Commissioner Gong mentioned the additional parking. It
 2   used to be that the turnaround was straight, but now there is a T shape, which is where the additional
 3   four parking spaces have come from. Mr. Reynolds confirmed that there are four additional stalls,
 4   with two on each side of the T shape. Council Member Fonte asked how the units would be made
 5   more affordable. Mr. Reynolds explained that cost efficiency will be considered while still
 6   maintaining high-quality units. The units are slightly smaller and have rooftop decks. He believes
 7   these will sell.
 8
 9   Commissioner Roach asked if the rooftop deck will be on the front or the back of the unit.
10   Mr.Reynolds explained that it depends. For the units that are facing north, the rooftop deck will be
11   on the front. Those on the back will be facing the creek. Commissioner Fonte wanted to know what
12   the size of the units will be. Mr. Reynolds stated that the units are between 1,600 and 1,700 square
13   feet.
14
15   Vice-Chair Prince opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The hearing was closed.
16
17   Vice-Chair Prince reported that there was an email comment received ahead of the Planning
18   Commission Meeting. The comment related to the roads and some stop lights, but nothing that was
19   specifically pertaining to the application that is currently before the Planning Commission.
20
21   Commissioner Berndt noted that it is unusual to park in the floodway. Ms. Marsh explained that with
22   waterway protection, there are specific standards. Parking areas and roads are allowed with a permit.
23   Public Works Director and City Engineer, Jared Bunch, explained that this is in a Federal Emergency
24   Management Agency (“FEMA”) floodplain. Parking is allowed within the floodway. What the City
25   looks at when issuing permits in the FEMA floodplain is the habitable space. Commissioner Bernt
26   does not want the parking areas to drain off into the creek, as that can create certain issues. Vice-
27   Chair Prince noted that there are some bushes and landscaping proposed around the units.
28
29   Commissioner Cunningham moved to APPROVE the Preliminary Plat application by Brad
30   Reynolds for “Holladay Cottages,” a nine-unit townhome subdivision, located at 4821 South 1740
31   East in the R-M Zone, based upon the following findings:
32
33          1.      Development details required for a Preliminary Plat have been submitted and
34                  reviewed by the TRC and found to be complete and acceptable.
35
36          2.      The number of units is compliant with the R-M Zone regulations.
37
38          3.      The Subdivision is in line with the previously approved Site Plan.
39
40          4.      The development complies with the General Plan.
41
42          5.      Fire access is approved by UFA.
43
44          6.      On-site stormwater retention is compliant with requirements.
45
46          7.      Vehicular access, emergency access, and utility easements are shown on the plat.

     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 01/07/2025

                                                       4
 1
 2   This approval is subject to the following condition:
 3
 4          1.      CC&Rs for the maintenance of common areas, stormwater retention, and access
 5                  must be submitted prior to final approval and are to be recorded with the Final Plat.
 6
 7   Also, within one year and in accordance with 13.10A.070.E, to complete administrative review and
 8   approval of the FINAL PLAT by the Community and Economic Development Director - following
 9   a positive, written recommendation from the TRC.
10
11   Commissioner Roach seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Cunningham-Aye;
12   Commissioner Vilchinsky-Aye; Commissioner Fonte-Aye; Commissioner Roach-Aye;
13   Commissioner Gong-Aye; Commissioner Berndt-Aye; Vice-Chair Prince-Aye. The motion passed
14   unanimously.
15
16   3.      General Plan and Ordinance Amendment – Map 3.1 of Chapter 3, Transportation
17           Element of the General Plan and Ordinance 13.02.030: Planning Documents; Roadway
18           Map Review and Recommendation to the City Council on a Proposal Made by Applicant
19           Ron Hilton to Amend Title 13, of the Holladay City Code, Land Use and Development
20           Regulations by Modifying Public Travel Widths and Dimensional Aspects of Public
21           Improvements at a Select Section of Murray Holladay Road. In Addition, a
22           Modification to the Planned Width of all Secondary Residential Streets in the City. Item
23           Reviewed as a Legislative Action, According to Procedures Set Forth in Holladay
24           Ordinance §13.07. File #25-4-01.
25   Mr. Teerlink presented the Staff Report and explained that this item relates to a General Plan and
26   Ordinance amendment. He reported that the application is a legislative request to amend Title
27   13.02.030 of the Holladay Municipal Land Use Code and Map 3.1 in the Transportation chapter of
28   the General Plan (Chapter 3). The application is required to be reviewed by the Planning Commission
29   prior to a recommendation being made to the City Council. Ultimately, the City Council will make
30   the final decision. The applicant is Ron Hilton and the Meeting Materials Packet includes the Staff
31   Report, feedback from various members of the Technical Review Committee (“TRC”), and the
32   applicant narrative. This request relates to a section of Murray Holladay Road and the Commission
33   is asked to review some dimensional standards. The intention is to discuss the merits of the requests.
34   Mr. Teerlink pointed out that there is an addendum request to amend secondary residential streets on
35   the Roadway Map from 50 feet to 40 feet. There is a signed addendum with the map and a redline.
36
37   Mr. Teerlink explained that when new roadway dedication widths are considered, if something falls
38   within a secondary residential roadway, normally there is a 50-foot dedication. Everything has to be
39   included in that 50-foot, including lanes, gutter, park strip, and sidewalk. The proposal is to consider
40   40 feet for a dedicated right-of-way width for all new streets within the City. As for the Staff Report,
41   there are some addendums from Planner I, Justice Tuffour, and the City Engineer.
42
43   Commissioner Roach asked about the reduction from 50 feet to 40 feet. He wondered whether that
44   would primarily reduce the park strip. Mr. Teerlink noted that it is unclear where that would be taken
45   from. For the benefit of the pedestrian right-of-way, it would likely need to be taken from the park
46   strip. Commissioner Roach thought that would hurt the Holladay efforts with Tree City USA. He

     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 01/07/2025

                                                        5
 1   pointed out that many trees are required to be planted in those park strips. Mr. Teerlink confirmed
 2   this and acknowledged that the park strip width is critical. It is possible to reduce the size of the travel
 3   lane instead, but the 10 feet would have to come from somewhere in order to see that reduction.
 4   Commissioner Roach believed the reduction would result in either more traffic or less green space.
 5
 6   Vice-Chair Prince wanted to know if parking would be prohibited if the width was reduced moving
 7   forward. Mr. Teerlink explained that this would need to be looked into. Parking on streets is generally
 8   allowed unless there is a specific safety concern where on-street parking needs to be eliminated.
 9
10   Commissioner Cunningham asked if this is conceptual in nature or if there is actual language
11   proposed. Mr. Teerlink confirmed that there is language available for Commissioner review.
12   Commissioner Cunningham asked the City Attorney to weigh in on what has been presented. City
13   Attorney, Jayme Blakesley, has questions about whether it is sufficient. Having more precise
14   language for a text amendment is a cleaner approach, but it is still possible to have a robust discussion.
15
16   Mr. Hilton introduced himself as the manager of Holladay Cottages, LLC, which is doing a
17   subdivision in this location called Hulton Park. His address is 2394 East Murray Holladay Road. Mr.
18   Hilton explained that Hulton Park is in the middle of the Medium Density District in the General
19   Plan. Hulton Park is a single-family development with higher density than the Low Density District.
20   The property is in the middle of the medium-density area, so the idea is for Hulton Park to be a
21   transitional area where there is the character of a single-family neighborhood with slightly higher
22   density. This creates a transition both in character and density. There is a similar transition happening
23   with the road. Hulton Park is divided into a north and south phase. It straddles Murray Holladay
24   Road and there is a requirement to make improvements on both sides of the road. When the project
25   first started out, there was a lot of input received from residents who requested that the density be
26   kept down.
27
28   After speaking to neighbors, there were also concerns expressed about the traffic, speed, and safety
29   in the area. Since some right-of-way improvements need to be made as part of this project, it makes
30   sense to propose some other changes. Mr. Hilton reported that a neighborhood petition was created
31   approximately 18 months ago, but nothing has moved forward with that. This application will allow
32   residents to share comments and provide feedback. He noted that the main priority is safety. There
33   is a lot of cut-through traffic in the area, which is a concern to the residents there. The City Council
34   at one point proposed one-way streets to address the problem, but the residents were not supportive
35   of that solution. What is now being proposed might be a preferable solution for the residents.
36
37   Mr. Hilton introduced Brian Horan from Galloway & Company. Mr. Horan explained that he is a
38   Licensed Traffic Engineer in the State and is also a professional Traffic Operations Engineer. He was
39   asked to speak about this proposal from a safety and traffic standpoint. Mr. Horan has only recently
40   become involved with this project, so he is unable to speak to the history of the proposal. However,
41   he understands that the neighbors and Mr. Hilton are looking to create an improvement that is focused
42   on safety. Commissioners can ask him traffic and safety questions that are related to the proposal.
43
44   Mr. Horan understands that the mechanism to provide these safety improvements involves an
45   amendment to the General Plan. Based on his knowledge, there was work done with City Staff to


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 01/07/2025

                                                          6
 1   determine the best mechanism in order to provide those specific improvements. He read from Chapter
 2   3 of the General Plan, which states that the primary goals for the City’s Vehicle Network are to:
 3
 4      •   Ensure the safety of all users;
 5      •   Continue to build upon and maintain the existing infrastructure;
 6      •   Mitigate and absorb traffic impacts of new development; and
 7      •   Reduce impediments to convenient use of main traffic corridors and discourage cut-through
 8          use of local residential streets.
 9
10   Mr. Horan noted that many cities are focused on moving towards more pedestrian and bicycle-friendly
11   networks, which is represented in the General Plan. The proposal in this case is to narrow a particular
12   section. This is most accurately defined as a choker. Narrowing streets has been proven to increase
13   safety and lower speeds. The National Association of City Transportation Officials (“NACTO”)
14   specifically states that lane widths of 10 feet are appropriate in urban areas and have a positive impact
15   on street safety without impacting traffic operations. Lanes greater than 11 feet should not be used,
16   as it can result in unintended speeding. Two-way streets with low or medium volumes of traffic may
17   benefit from the use of a dashed center line with narrow lane widths or no center line at all. Mr.
18   Horan explained that a search for lane width versus speed will bring up the NACTO study. The study
19   found that narrower lanes decrease speed. He reported that lower speeds are safer for all and noted
20   that there is a 15% increase in fatalities every 5 miles per hour when the speed is increased on a road.
21
22   The speed study provided in the application was reviewed. Mr. Horan noted that it states the 85th
23   percentile speed is 31 miles per hour. In traffic engineering, the 85th percentile speed is used as the
24   measure for speeding. If the 85th percentile is more than 5 miles per hour over the speed limit, that
25   indicates something needs to be mitigated. Based on the numbers, it is reasonable to pursue some
26   sort of traffic calming measure to reduce the number and be back within the 5 MPH range.
27
28   Mr. Horan reported that wider streets attract cut-through. As mentioned in the General Plan, cut-
29   through is something to be avoided. He shared some context about the area associated with the
30   application and noted that there are opportunities for cut-through. Mr. Horan noted that the road is a
31   Class III bicycle facility. He clarified that Class III is on-street and bicycles should take up the travel
32   lane. This helps to reduce speeds in the area. Providing too much width in an area like this will
33   encourage bicyclists to use the shoulder, which then encourages vehicles and bicycles to use the same
34   area. Reducing the width puts the bicycle in the appropriate lane. Continuing to encourage
35   appropriate use in the area makes sense given the context. The proposal is not out of line with what
36   exists.
37
38   This roadway is a neighborhood pedestrian corridor. The intention is to connect the neighbors to the
39   commercial center. Mr. Horan explained that keeping the sections narrow and the provided crosswalk
40   are elements that connect the neighborhood to the commercial center. Smaller roadway widths also
41   reduce the crossing time. In areas like this, where there is a crosswalk nearby, eliminating on-street
42   parking can be beneficial for the overall visibility of pedestrians and vehicles. Based on the 3.1 map
43   information, this is the only collector road in the City that does not connect to arterials.
44



     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 01/07/2025

                                                         7
 1   Commissioner Berndt asked about the volume of traffic that would move to adjacent residential
 2   streets if the traffic levels were reduced. He wanted to understand whether the proposed changes
 3   might shift the traffic patterns. Mr. Horan does not believe an extensive Origin Destination Study
 4   has been done at this point, so there is no data available to answer that question. Commissioner
 5   Berndt asked if the design that is currently being reviewed was done by Mr. Horan. It was clarified
 6   that the applicant put together the proposal and he was brought on to share information about impacts.
 7
 8   Commissioner Berndt wanted to know if what is proposed is the most effective option available. If
 9   this is reduced, but the traffic still does not slow, then there could be a problem. Mr. Horan noted
10   that there are a lot of ways to increase friction. What has been proposed is one way to do so and it
11   seems to fit within the existing conditions. From a cost and available infrastructure standpoint, this
12   is a solid attempt. Incremental changes that are cost-effective are usually the best approach.
13
14   Commissioner Cunningham believes there were some previous requests to address the road. A
15   decision was made and it seems this is an attempt to change that decision. Mr. Hilton clarified that
16   he has brought this forward so the neighbors have the opportunity to be heard on this issue. He wants
17   the petition to be considered by the elected officials. City Staff recommended that an appeal be filed,
18   so that is what was done. That appeal brought it to the Mayor, but the City Attorney stated that it was
19   inadmissible in that form and no decision could be made. It was then sent back to City Staff.
20
21   Mr. Hilton reported that something constructive came out of the appeal process. Mayor Rob Dahle
22   said that he would be open to the idea of restriping the road to narrow the right-of-way. That was
23   something he had seen done previously on Spring Lane and it had been effective in that area. That
24   comment was another motivation for submitting this application. Commissioner Cunningham
25   pointed out that the costs associated with the work need to be considered. This is the first time since
26   he has been on the Planning Commission that the Commission is involved in a budget-related issue.
27   He expressed concerns that this appears to shift some of the costs to the City in order to solve a
28   development matter. Mr. Hilton explained that moving the power pole and the costs associated with
29   that are not really the issue. The real issue relates to safety, which is the reason this has been brought
30   forward. Since it falls in the middle of his project, he has offered to pay for the cost of Phase I and II
31   of this proposal, which includes the restriping of the road. It is $25,000 for the road restriping.
32
33   Discussions were had about the different phases associated with the proposal before the Commission.
34   Commissioner Cunningham pointed out that there are likely other areas in the City that have similar
35   needs. Those needs are usually handled through the budget process. It feels like a text amendment
36   is being used to prioritize this safety issue over other existing issues in the City. If the Planning
37   Commission supports this amendment, the recommendation would essentially be to prioritize this
38   project during the budget process. Mr. Hilton recognizes that concern, which is the reason the
39   amendment language states that Phase III would be subject to a normal budgetary process and is
40   conditioned upon that. Phase III is somewhat optional and he is willing to pay for Phases I and II.
41
42   Mr. Blakesley offered to share some legal clarifications with the Commission. The basic context of
43   the prior request from Mr. Hilton and how it was handled is separate from this request legally, but the
44   background might be relevant. The Commission is being asked to make a legislative decision.
45   Mr. Hilton has applied for a land use change and the change takes place in two locations. There is a


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 01/07/2025

                                                         8
 1   text amendment to the code and a General Plan amendment that the Planning Commission is being
 2   asked to consider. He explained that both are needed in order to effectuate what has been requested.
 3
 4   When the development came forward and the bond was posted for the public improvements that are
 5   required with the development, there was a question about road widths. The City agreed to a reduction
 6   of the road width to 32 feet for the paved road width. There was a question about a utility pole and
 7   its location. Mr. Blakesley stated that the utility pole was initially understood to be located on a
 8   neighboring property that had been redeveloped prior to this development, but it was later learned
 9   that the utility pole was in fact on the Hilton property and was therefore the responsibility of this
10   development. The utility pole is in a location where if you look at the roadway width, it interferes
11   with the shoulder, pedestrian, and park strip infrastructure that would be along that side. There was
12   discussion with the City about who would be responsible for relocating that utility pole and whether
13   the road widths could be changed in a way that would not require the pole to be moved.
14
15   Vice-Chair Prince asked whether the drainage would be impacted by the location of the utility pole.
16   Mr. Blakesley was not certain. He explained that the appeal that went to the Mayor was styled as a
17   variation. It was not a variance necessarily but was a request to adjust the City standards for road
18   widths in that location. The Mayor considered statements from the City Engineer, City Planner, and
19   the City Attorney. Mr. Hilton and his representative were present at the hearing. The decision of the
20   Mayor was to deny the request for the variation, which essentially required the 32-foot width of the
21   roadway, the relocation of that utility pole, and the pedestrian improvements. The current application
22   is related to the fact that it involves the same location and there is a similar request. That being said,
23   legally, it is not part of the same process. The Planning Commission has the ability to consider it as
24   a legislative decision. He hopes that the context provided has been useful for Commissioners.
25
26   Commissioner Roach wondered whether the utility pole would need to be moved if the application
27   was ultimately approved. Mr. Hilton explained that when it came to his attention that the pole might
28   need to be moved, he decided to look in the area to see if there were any other poles with this issue.
29   There are approximately a dozen power poles on that side of the street and eight of them would need
30   to be moved if the original plan was used. Mr. Hilton shared information about the neighborhood
31   petition that was submitted previously. Commissioner Roach noted that he appreciates citizen efforts
32   to improve community safety. He asked what it would cost to have the pole moved that is on his
33   property. Mr. Hilton reported that Rocky Mountain Power initially stated that the pole could not be
34   moved and the power for the entire block would need to be buried. The City then spoke to Rocky
35   Mountain Power and came back with an estimate of $16,000 to move the one pole. He is offering to
36   spend $25,000 on what the neighbors want. It is not necessarily an issue of cost, but what is desired.
37
38   Commissioner Fonte asked if there were other ways to slow the traffic down. Mr. Hilton explained
39   that it is up to the City to determine the best path forward. This application was submitted so there
40   could be a discussion and a decision could be made. This was the only avenue to bring the matter
41   forward. The General Plan is a guideline and already more or less is in agreement with what is
42   envisioned. However, according to City Staff, it would need to be amended to become more focused.
43   The text amendment was first and then City Staff suggested that the General Plan amendment be
44   added.
45
46   Vice-Chair Prince opened the public hearing.

     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 01/07/2025

                                                         9
 1
 2   Phillip Cone gave his address as 2636 Murray Holladay Road. He has lived there for 13 years and
 3   his home would be directly impacted by what has been proposed. There is traffic in the area and it
 4   has increased somewhat over the years, but he does not see traffic issues in general. Mr. Cone does
 5   not believe there is a problem that needs to be solved here. The narrowing of the road means that
 6   guests who come to visit would be unable to park on the side of the road. He expressed concerns
 7   about the elimination of on-street parking as a result of the proposal. Mr. Cone pointed out that the
 8   value of his home would be impacted if roadside parking was eliminated. If there is an issue in the
 9   neighborhood, it is that some people run the stop signs. He does not see significant traffic problems.
10
11   Brian Jackman gave his address as 4644 South Chapel Drive, which is approximately two and a half
12   blocks from where this is proposed. He has lived in the area for 34 years and has seen traffic increase.
13   However, most of the traffic appears to be residential. Mr. Jackman has heard about the petition that
14   was mentioned and wondered how many residents actually signed it. As for how to slow down
15   vehicles, he suggested stop signs on Chapel Drive, Clearview Street, or Russell Street. There could
16   also be additional enforcement for the existing stop signs to ensure that vehicles are actually slowing
17   down. Mr. Jackman believes reducing the width of the road will lead to more issues for pedestrians.
18   He had questions about on-street parking and how the proposal will impact the ability of vehicles to
19   park. Based on what he has seen, he believes the proposal will make the area less safe than it is.
20
21   Hank Volker gave his address as 2500 Murray Holladay Road and noted that he has lived there for 15
22   years. He does not see an issue with the current configuration. Some of the changes that are proposed
23   do not seem necessary. If the power poles are removed and the mailboxes there are removed, no one
24   will be able to park on that side of the street, because there will not be enough room. This means the
25   people who live on Murray Holladay Road would not be able to park in front of their homes and
26   would not be able to have guests park on the road. As far as speeding, one of the blinking speed limit
27   signs was put out previously, which led to a shift in behaviors. There are bicyclists that use the road,
28   and he has seen them in both directions, but there are not a lot of bicyclists there. Mr. Volker does
29   not see a lot of the issues that have been mentioned during the Planning Commission Meeting.
30
31   It was noted that Mr. Volker signed the resident petition included in the Meeting Materials Packet.
32   At one time, he was in favor of the proposed changes, but now his comments appear in opposition.
33
34   Melissa Hilton gave her address as 2394 East Murray Holladay Road. She wanted to address the idea
35   of park strips, which were discussed earlier in the meeting. There is a drought issue and there are
36   water issues. Trees, grass, and landscaping are all important, but as for the park strips, most of the
37   recommendations are to move away from them. She referenced what is in place on the north side of
38   Murray Holladay Road, which is the sidewalk right on the street. It would make more sense to have
39   the trees behind the sidewalk so there is more shade created for pedestrians. This would also address
40   other issues, such as lifting of the sidewalks. Ms. Hilton noted that neighbors were told that the
41   sidewalk would eventually go all the way up Murray Holladay Road, which is the reason many of the
42   people on Murray Holladay Road expressed opposition because there is a desire to park on the street.
43
44   The applicant was invited to respond to the comments made during the public hearing. Mr. Hilton
45   explained that he is a developer but also lives in the area. As a result, he has two perspectives on the
46   situation. In the original plan, the sidewalk would continue straight with a park strip. That would

     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 01/07/2025

                                                       10
 1   require the power poles to be moved and eminent domain or exaction. The property owners did not
 2   want portions of their property taken, so the petition was created. After the petition, there was some
 3   further feedback received from neighbors. A minority of neighbors were supportive of a sidewalk
 4   but did not want to take away from their yards. The intention is to increase overall safety.
 5
 6   Mr. Horan noted that the current proposal appears to be less expensive for the City because it results
 7   in fewer poles that the City needs to move. He noted that City Staff could provide clarification on
 8   that.
 9
10   There were no further comments. The hearing was closed.
11
12   Commissioner Roach noted that relocation of poles and sidewalks was mentioned multiple times
13   during the public hearing. He asked for clarification about whether or not what currently exists will
14   remain until there is a permit for development and changes made to the site. He believed at that point,
15   it would be brought into new plan conformance. Mr. Teerlink confirmed this and explained that off-
16   site improvements are enacted when new development occurs on the property. If a neighbor up the
17   street with a power pole and no sidewalk does nothing, there is no requirement for them to add a
18   sidewalk or remove the pole. Commissioner Roach thanked him for providing that clarification.
19
20   Commissioner Berndt noted that what is proposed will impact all secondary residential roads. It will
21   not only apply to this particular section. Mr. Blakesley reads it the same way and it would have broad
22   applicability the way it is written and proposed. Commissioner Berndt asked how to measure that
23   impact and expressed his concerns. Commissioner Gong appreciates the research on traffic calming.
24   It seems like there are mixed opinions about the needs based on some of the resident feedback. She
25   wants to have a better understanding of the broader implications of all secondary residential roads.
26   Commissioner Roach has some concerns about what has been proposed. If the right-of-way is
27   narrowed, it is important to consider what will be lost in order to make that happen. It seems like the
28   park strips will be eliminated, which means buildings will be pushed closer to the road. He does not
29   feel that the proposed text amendment makes a lot of sense based on that.
30
31   Commissioner Cunningham asked that the proposed text language be shared, specifically Section A
32   and Section B. The petition has somehow morphed into the language that is now before the
33   Commission and it includes a deadline date of April 11, 2025, for Phase I and Phase II. There are
34   specifics about the different phases, but none of that appears in the original petitions that were signed.
35   He expressed concerns about Phase III, as he feels that will force the Council to prioritize the project.
36
37   Commissioner Vilchinsky agrees with the previous comments shared by the Commission. It is
38   important that people have the ability to access their neighborhoods and communities. If it is not
39   from this street, then it will be from another street. There has to be a way for people to get to and
40   from the village center and schools. She does not want to push traffic problems to other areas.
41   Commissioner Vilchinsky encouraged the residents at the meeting to be vocal during the General
42   Plan process so it is clear what there is a desire to see in the future. Commissioner Fonte studied the
43   Meeting Materials Packet carefully and reviewed all of the information. She will not be voting in
44   favor of this change, because it would be irresponsible for the Planning Commission to do so. If the
45   issue is safety, the Commission has not seen clear evidence that there is a safety issue in the area.
46   There are other opportunities to calm the traffic without narrowing the road. Commissioner Fonte

     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 01/07/2025

                                                        11
 1   pointed out that the City is working on a General Plan update. It is necessary to think about that
 2   update and what is desired for the City of Holladay in the future. For example, maintaining the tree
 3   canopy.
 4
 5   Commissioner Roach moved to forward a recommendation to the City Council to DENY an
 6   application by Ron Hilton to amend Land Use Ordinance 13.02.030 and Map 3.1 of Chapter 3 of
 7   the General Plan, based upon the following findings:
 8
 9          1.     The proposal does not seem to fit with the intent of what the applicant submitted.
10
11          2.     In light of the upcoming General Plan update, it would be better vetted and worked
12                 through during that process rather than trying to amend it at this time.
13
14   Commissioner Fonte seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Cunningham-Aye;
15   Commissioner Vilchinsky-Aye; Commissioner Fonte-Aye; Commissioner Roach-Aye;
16   Commissioner Gong-Aye; Commissioner Berndt-Aye; Vice-Chair Prince-Aye. The motion passed
17   unanimously.
18
19   ACTION ITEMS
20   4.   Approval of Minutes – October 29, 2024.
21   Commissioner Berndt noted that he was not at the meeting and will not vote on the Meeting Minutes.
22
23   Commissioner Cunningham moved to APPROVE the October 29, 2024, Planning Commission
24   Meeting Minutes. Commissioner Roach seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
25   unanimous consent of the Commission, with an abstention from Commissioner Berndt.
26
27   ADJOURN
28   The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 7:45 p.m.
29




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 01/07/2025

                                                     12
 1   I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City of
 2   Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held on Tuesday, January 7, 2025.
 3
 4
 5

 6   Teri Forbes
 7   Teri Forbes
 8   T Forbes Group
 9   Minutes Secretary
10
11   Minutes Approved: ________________




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 01/07/2025

                                                     13
