WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ
ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŝƚǇŽĨ,ŽůůĂĚĂǇ
ϴϬϭ͘ϱϮϳ͘ϯϴϵϬ

 &/>η 25-2-04                                  HYDE ACCESSORY BUILDING CUP
 4                                       /^/KEdzW͗
  2242 E. Pheasant Way                           Administrative:

      4 22-15-329-027               Public hearing required. PC shall make a motion of either,
  LOT 1A, DREYFOUS FARMS SUBDIVISION AMENDED.
                                                 denial, approval or to continue. All motions require findings
  10286-4305 10353-6929                          which support the decision. As directed by ordinance,
                                                 applications shall be approved if the Land Use Authority
                                                 finds Substantial Evidence of compliance with applicable
                                                 requirements. Holladay Ord. 13.06.050.B2 and 13.08
   6  4
  Jackson Leroy                                  ^/ds//E/dzDW

  4
  Leonard Hyde

      4
  R-1-87

 'EZ>W>E/^dZ/d4
  Country Estates-Protected (CE-P)
 /dzKhE/>/^dZ/d͗
  District #5
 Wh>/EKd/d/>^4
  Published and mailed 12/5/2025
 4
  Conditional Use Permit

      4
  13.08.040




   4
  Vicinity Map
  Staff Report
  Applicant Narrative
  Applicant supporting doc.
                                                 EŽƚĞƐ͗




 4
  Carrie Marsh, City Planner

                                                                                                           ?
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning


                         PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
                                               December 16, 2025

ITEM # 1
Request: Conditional Use as a Short-Term Rental
Project: “Hyde Accessory Building Footprint”
Address: 2242 E. Pheasant Way
Applicant: Jackson Leroy representing Property Owner L. Hyde
File No.: 25-2-04
Notice: Mailed Notice on December 5, 2025
Staff: Carrie Marsh

GOVERNING ORDINANCES:
13.03.020        CONDITIONAL USE – SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
13.08.040        CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REVIEW/APPROVAL STANDARDS
13.14.030        ACCESSORY USES
Section 10-20-505 UTAH Land Use, Development, and Management Act (LUDMA): CONDITIONAL USES

REQUIRED PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION: Administrative
Public hearing to be held. PC shall make a motion of either, denial, approval or to continue. All motions
require findings which support the decision. As directed by ordinance, applications shall be approved if
the Land Use Authority finds Substantial Evidence of compliance with applicable requirements. Holladay
Ord. 13.06.050.B2 and 13.08

SUMMARY
Chart 13.14.101 of the City of Holladay zoning code details the total footprint allowable for a permitted
accessory structures. The square footage allotment applies to all detached structures on a property, as
detailed in §13.14.030.D. Footprint sizing (in aggregate) is predicated on property size(s) with a ranging
scale offering larger structures on/ larger properties.

The applicant Jackson Leroy, representing the property owner L. Hyde, is requesting approval by the
Planning Commission relating to a new accessory building footprint of 3,702 square feet, which is in
addition to an existing 749 sq ft detached guesthouse. The two accessory structures aggregate footprint
size is 4,451 sq ft. This total exceeds the permitted accessory structure footprint of 1,400 square feet for
their 2.09-acre (91,040 sq. ft) property by 3,051 square feet.

The application, narrative, and site plan have been submitted by the applicant and available for review
by the Planning Commission.

The State of Utah has created statutes within Utah’s state code that govern conditional uses (Section
§10-20-505), including:


“Hyde Accessory Building Footprint” Conditional Use
                                                                                                 Page 1 of 4
                                           City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning

        •    “A municipality may adopt a land use ordinance that includes conditional uses and
            provisions for conditional uses that require compliance with objective standards set forth in
            an applicable ordinance”.
        •   “A municipality may not impose a requirement or standard on a conditional use that
            conflicts with a provision of this chapter or other state or federal law.
        •    “A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are proposed,
            or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the
            proposed use in accordance with applicable standards”
        •   “The requirement described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to reasonably mitigate anticipated
            detrimental effects of the proposed conditional use does not require elimination of the
            detrimental effects.” (§10-20-506(2)(a)(ii))

Review by the Planning Commission and the holding of a public hearing are intended to evaluate
potential impacts unique to the site and place reasonable conditions to mitigate specific impacts. Any
conditions applied must be reasonable, address the identified effect, and refer to the applicable
standards of conditional uses within the City’s code. As per 13.04.080, a Conditional Use should NOT:

    1. Contribute to a detrimental concentration of existing nonconforming or conditional uses
       substantially similar to the use proposed within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the exterior boundary of
       the subject property;
    2. Result in loss of privacy, objectionable views of large parking or storage areas; or views or
       sounds of loading and unloading areas; and
    3. Encroach on or cause erosion of the bank of a river or stream, or direct runoff into a river or
       stream without approval by the appropriate storm water authority.

As larger accessory structures (whether singularly or collectively) proposed on properties in Holladay are
reviewed in context of Conditional Use Standards (see H.C.C. § 13.08.040.F), any denial requires careful
and specific reasons(ing) to withstand court scrutiny.

TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTE ANALYSIS
The Technical Review Committee (TRC) finds that the application for a Conditional Use Permit allowing a
footprint size increase to be complete.

Zoning, City Planner:
Code analysis:

13.14.030: ACCESSORY USES
    • Primary use is established on the property
    • Accessory uses include accessory buildings and uses that are customarily incidental to the
       permitted residential use
    • Accessory structures with a footprint over 1,400 square feet require a conditional use permit
    • Accessory structures on lots over a half-acre can be larger than the primary structure
    • Proposed structure is not a guesthouse or accessory dwelling unit


“Hyde Accessory Building Footprint” Conditional Use
                                                                                               Page 2 of 4
                                           City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning

    •   The maximum lot coverage allowed for structures on a 2.09-acre (91,040 sq. ft) parcel is 18,208
        sq. ft (20% of total lot area). The new accessory structure and a proposed addition to the
        primary structure brings the total proposed square footage of structure coverage on the
        property to 9,914 sq ft.
    •   The proposed accessory structure is compliant with the 15-foot setback for accessory structures
        for properties over two acres.
    •   The proposed accessory structure is compliant with the maximum height of 20 feet for
        accessory structures
    •   Architectural controls according to §13.14.100:MASS AND SCALE applied, which requires “a
        minimum of an eighteen-inch (18") break in the roofline and/or an articulated architectural
        element such as overhangs, projections, insets, material and textural changes, or other
        architectural elements used to create shadow patterns along the elevation of the building” for
        any portion of a building longer than forty horizontal feet.

United Fire Authority (UFA), Area Fire Marshal:
    • Furthest point of structure must be within 150 feet of approved fire access
    • Fire access must withstand weight of fire truck
    • Fire access details to be reviewed at building permit submission

Building Code, City Building Official
    • All building codes for new structure to be reviewed at building permit submission

Engineering Requirements, City Engineer
    • Increase of lot coverage that is more than 10% than the existing coverage requires on-site
       stormwater retention. Plans to be reviewed at building permit submission

RECOMMENDATION
Large accessory buildings over the permitted footprint size are given additional oversight through the
public process and review of staff and the Planning Commission to place reasonable conditions that
directly mitigate any potential impacts. Utah State Law does not require the impacts of conditional use
to be eliminated.

The Planning Commission is authorized to approve conditional use permits as provided in section
13.08.040. Denial of a conditional use permit application should only occur, “if the anticipated
detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or by
the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional
use permit shall be denied.”.

Any conditions placed must be directly related to an identified impact. If the commission finds that the
applicant is willing to and can meet any of the potential conditions discussed during the public meeting,
the following findings of approval may be made

The TRC recommends the PC to hold the required public hearing (as required 13.08.040). A
neighborhood meeting is not required for this type of application. Public comments offered during the

“Hyde Accessory Building Footprint” Conditional Use
                                                                                              Page 3 of 4
                                           City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning

hearing should be considered within the context of the set approval standards mentioned above and
may be used to form possible discussion points for generations of additional findings and/or conditions.
Additional considerations or conditions, if any, should be applied carefully and reasonably as per
13.08.040.F.

The Holladay TRC has provided their suggesting findings and conditions to consider.


FINDINGS:
   • The property is within the R-1-87 zone and totals 2.09 acres
   • A primary residential use has been established on the property
   • Accessory uses include accessory buildings and uses that are customarily incidental to the
       permitted residential use
   • The total accessory structure footprint on the property is over 1,400 square feet
   • The accessory structures on lots over a half-acre can be larger than the primary structure
   • The proposed structure is not a guesthouse or accessory dwelling unit
   • The addition of the proposed accessory structure is within the allowed lot coverage
   • The proposed accessory structure meets the 15-foot setback requirement for accessory
       structures

CONDITIONS:
   1. Property to retain its residential use and appearance
   2. Accessory structure to comply with all zoning standards including height, massing and scale,
      setbacks, graduated height, lot coverage, and lighting
   3. A building permit is required for construction of the structure
   4. All trees removed by the placement of the accessory structure and any hard surfaces associated
      with it are to be replaced with an equivalent canopy at maturity
   5. Vegetation, including trees or tall shrubs to be planted in the rear and side setbacks against
      neighboring properties.
   6. A home occupation business license is required if clients associated with a business visit the
      property
   7. Conditions or complaints found to be in violation of set standards will require re-review by the
      planning commission or possible revocation of this permit as determined by the Community
      Development Director


SUGGESTED MOTIONS

“I ____ Motion to (approve / continue for further discussion) the CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT application
by Jackson Leroy, representing property owner L. Hyde for an accessory building footprint of 3,702
square feet, located at 2242 E. Pheasant Way. in the R-1-87 zone, based upon the findings that…
… and subject to the following conditions … “.




“Hyde Accessory Building Footprint” Conditional Use
                                                                                             Page 4 of 4
               NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
       CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT – Accessory Building Size
Date:                          Tuesday, December 16th, 2025
Time:                          As close to 6:00 pm as possible
Location:                      City Hall – City Council Chambers
Hearing Body:                  Planning Commission


Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
review and consider a proposal by Jackson Leroy, representing the
property owner L. Hyde, for a Conditional Use Permit for an accessory
building on property located at 2242 E. Pheasant Way in the R-1-87 zone.
Proposal is in accordance with provisions in Holladay City Code Section
13.14.030.

**No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with this application. **

Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm 12/15/2025 to Carrie Marsh
cmarsh@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments received by the designated
times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.

Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to view this
meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch
the video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay webpage.

ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on 12/05/2025 by order of the Community and Economic Development Director,
Jonathan Teerlink, to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your residence,
please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.




               NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
      CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT – Accessory Building Size
 Date:                           Tuesday, December 16th, 2025
 Time:                           As close to 6:00 pm as possible
 Location:                       City Hall – City Council Chambers
 Hearing Body:                   Planning Commission

Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay Planning Commission will
review and consider a proposal by Jackson Leroy, representing the
property owner L. Hyde, for a Conditional Use Permit for an accessory
building on property located at 2242 E. Pheasant Way in the R-1-87 zone.
Proposal is in accordance with provisions in Holladay City Code Section
13.14.030.

**No zone or ordinance change is proposed in conjunction with this application. **

 Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm 12/15/2025 to Carrie Marsh
 cmarsh@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments received by the designated
 times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.
 Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to view this
 meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
 agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch
 the video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay webpage.



ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on 12/05/2025 by order of the Community and Economic Development
Director, Jonathan Teerlink, to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of
your residence, please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.
                             NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay Planning Commission will hold a public
hearing on Tuesday, the 16th day of December 2025, as close to 6:00 P.M. as possible.
The purpose of the hearing is to open a comment period while the commission considers a
conditional use application for an accessory building footprint size submitted by Jackson Leroy,
representing property owner L. Hyde, for a property located at 2242 E Pheasant Way Holladay,
Utah.

The request is to evaluate the size and location of a proposed accessory building in accordance
with the approval standards for a conditional use permit outlined in Chapter §13.08.040 of the
City of Holladay Municipal Code, and apply conditions to mitigate any impacts of the proposed
use.

The packet with information regarding this application will be available for public inspection on
the City’s website www.holladayut.gov and at the Community Development Dept. during normal
business hours three days prior to the scheduled meeting.


The public can remotely watch the Live Stream of the meeting. To provide a public comment or
to comment on any public hearing, you have the following options:
1. In-person attendance at Holladay City Hall or
2. Email your comments by 5:00 PM on the date of the meeting to cmarsh@holladayut.gov or
call 801-527-3890.




CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the
above agenda notice was posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov the
Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn, and was emailed to the Salt Lake
Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

DATE POSTED: [ date ]
Stephanie N. Carlson MMC,
City Recorder City of Holladay
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
                              Conditional Use Permit Narrative
November 25, 2025

Hyde Residence
2242 Pheasant Way
Holladay, UT 84117

       This narrative is being written to lay out the reasons for granting a Conditional Use
Permit (CUP) for the project located at 2242 Pheasant Way. The proposed project includes
constructing a detached accessory building in the backyard. The purpose of the building is
to include a home office, den, library and family gathering space. The building will not
include any bedrooms/sleeping areas or a full kitchen. Based on the size of the property the
square footage of an accessory building allowed by city code is 1,400sqft. The proposed
square footage of the accessory building is 3,720sqft.

        Approval of the CUP will not contrast with the public interest because the structure
will be located in the backyard of the property and only accessible through private entrances
in control of the property owner. The accessory building is in keeping within the character of
existing zoning as there are accessory buildings of various sizes located on properties in the
surrounding neighborhood. The building will be built to blend with the look and finish of the
existing home and will be beautifully landscaped to blend in with surrounding areas. Existing
mature trees along the east property line will screen the buildings from neighbors. Additional
trees and shrubs will be planted to screen the south property line.

      We don’t believe this CUP request is related to the requirements found in the Home
Occupation Ordinance as there will be no commercial business being conducted from the
accessory building.

       A site plan, floor plan and elevations are included with this request. It is our hope that
the accessory building as shown in the drawings will be approved. If possible, we would like
this application to be included in the December 16th Planning Commission meeting agenda.



Thank you,




Benn Brindley
Jackson LeRoy
    1   2   3   4                      5                                          6                            7                       8                  9




A                                                                                                                                                             A


                                                                                                                                                                   TREE SCHEDULE



                                                                                                                                                                              Existing Tree Canopy



                                                                                                                                                                              Proposed Tree Screening
B                                                                                                                                                             B




                                                  PARCEL 1B
                                           INGRESS/EGRESS, UTILITY
                                             & DRAINAGE EASEMENT
                                             PER SUBDIVISION PLAT




C                                                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                         EXISTING
                                                                                                                         GUEST HOUSE
                                                                                                                         749sqft           45'-0" PRIMARY
                                                                                                                                           BUILDING SETBACK


                                                                                      WM
                                                                                            FUTURE ADDITION.
                                                                             GM             NOT PART OF THIS
                                                                                            CUP APPLICATION                                15'-0" ACCESSORY
                                                                                                                                           BUILDING SETBACK
                                                                                            1,493sqft




                                                                 PRIMARY
D
                                                                 RESIDENCE                                                                                    D     LOT COVERAGE CALCULATION
                                                                 3,952sqft
                                                                                                                                                                    LOT SQFT - 92,792
                                                                                                                                                                    PRIMARY RESIDENCE - 3,952
                                                                                                                                                                    EX GUEST HOUSE - 749




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HYDE PHEASANT WAY
                                                                                                                                                                    FUTURE ADDITION - 1,493
                                                                                                                                                                    PROPOSED ACC BLDG - 3,720
                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL ALL STRUCTURES - 9,914




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2242 PHEASANT WAY
                                                                                                                                                                    STRUCTURES % OF LOT SQFT - 10.5%

                                                                                                                   PROPOSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT NAME:
                                                                                                                   ACCESSORY
E                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                   BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                   3,720sqft




                    35'-0" PRIMARY
                    BUILDING SETBACK



                                                                                      15'-0" ACCESSORY
F                                                                                                                                                             F


                                                                                      BUILDING SETBACK



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        859 S 800 E,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      www.loci-slc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       801.906.0399




                                                                                                                                                                                                               NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONSTRUCTION
G                                                                                                                                                             G




                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT MANAGER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAWN BY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CLIENT JOB NO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CREATION DATE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REVISED
                                                                                                                                                                                                             XX         DATE                  DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BY:




H                                                                                                                                                             H




                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROPOSED LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SCREENING

I                                                                                                                                                             I




                                                                                                                                                                                                      1:20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L0.00
                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH   0     20      40     60    SCALE

    1   2   3   4                      5                                          6                            7                       8                  9
                                              EL. 18’-4”    EL. 18’-4”
                                                                                         EL. 16’-4”


                   EL. 11’-4”                                                            EL. 11’-4”


                                                                              OPEN TO
                                                                             COURTYARD
                                                                              BEYOND



                EAST ELEVATION                             NORTH ELEVATION




                   EL. 18’-4”                                                            EL. 18’-4”
                                 EL. 16’-4”                EL. 16’-4”


                   EL. 11’-4”                 EL. 11’-4”                                 EL. 11’-4”




                WEST ELEVATION                             SOUTH ELEVATION




BUILDING ELEVATIONS
0   2   4   8           16
X
X
X
X




X
X
Salt Lake City UT 84117




                          $950.00
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ
ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŝƚǇŽĨ,ŽůůĂĚĂǇ
ϴϬϭ͘ϱϮϳ͘ϯϴϵϬ

 &/>η 25-4-10                                      4545 S. HIGHLAND DR. REZONE TO P-O
 4                                             /^/KEdzW͗
  4545 S. Highland Dr.                                 Administrative:

      4 22-04-405-121                     Public hearing required. PC shall make a motion of either,
  LOT 1, BELLA CASA SUBDIVISION. LESS THE S 20 FT
                                                       denial, approval or to continue. All motions require findings
  THEREOF                                              which support the decision. As directed by ordinance,
                                                       applications shall be approved if the Land Use Authority
                                                       finds Substantial Evidence of compliance with applicable
                                                       requirements. Holladay Ord. 13.06.050.B2 and 13.08
   6  4
  Jaimie Walker Homes                                  ^/ds//E/dzDW

  4
  Matthew Michalis

      4
  R-2-10

 'EZ>W>E/^dZ/d4
  Highland Drive Master Plan - Seg A
 /dzKhE/>/^dZ/d͗
  District #1
 Wh>/EKd/d/>^4
  Published and mailed 12/5/2025
 4
  Zone Map Amendment

      4
  13.07.030
  General Plan - HDMP Segment A



   4
  Zone map
  Staff Report
  Applicant Narrative
  Applicant supporting doc.
                                                       EŽƚĞƐ͗




 4
  Carrie Marsh, City Planner

                                                                                                                 ?
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning


                         PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
                                               December 16, 2025

ITEM # 2
Request: Zone Map Amendment
Project: Rezone from R-2-10 to P-O
Address: 4545 S. Highland Drive
Applicants: Jamie Walker, representing property owner Matthew Michalis
File No.: 25-4-10
Notice: Mailed Notice on December 5, 2025
Staff: Carrie Marsh

GOVERNING ORDINANCES:
13.07.030       AMENDMENT TO THE ZONE MAP
General Plan    HIGHLAND DRIVE MASTER PLAN
13.44.010       PROFESSIONAL OFFICE ZONE

REQUIRED PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION: Legislative
Public hearing to be held. Zone map amendments are proposed changes to the City of Holladay zoning
map. Decisions on proposals to amend the zoning map is legislative action, requiring the Planning
Commission to hold a public hearing, review the proposal, and forward a recommendation, with findings,
to the City Council for final decision/action.

SUMMARY
The applicant, Jamie Walker Home Design, with property owner Matthew Michalis, is requesting to
change the zone designation of a single parcel located at 4545 S. Highland Drive from its existing zone of
R-2-10 (Residential two-family) to the P-O zone (Professional Office). The parcel is .14 acres (sq. ft) and
the property does not contain any structures.

The parcel is located on the east side of Highland Drive, across the road from a grocery store, a fast-food
restaurant, a gas station, and other several other commercial businesses. The parcel shares a driveway
on the south side with a rear property addressed as 4555 S. The rear parcel is not part of the rezone
application and will retain the R-2-10 zoning with the existing home to remain.

The applicant is seeking a change in zone in line with the guidance in the Highland Drive Master Plan,
Segment A, to enable the development of the property as a small architectural office space. Rezoning
the property to P-O allows several uses beyond office space, including medical, dental, educational, and
personal services. The variety of allowed uses are relatively small in scale and considered to have a
lower impact than commercial uses. A variety of allowed uses within the zone creates adaptability in
shifting economies, which helps provide long-term economic stability and vitality in new development.




4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                              Page 1 of 7
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning




GENERAL PLAN APPLICATION/ANALYSIS
Implementing zone regulations to anticipated growth needs/goals is a particularly important land use
decision. As a legislative action, this decision is guided by the community standards given in the City of
Holladay General Plan and the Highland Drive Master Plan and is supported by Title 13 of the Land Use
Ordinances of Holladay.

The Highland Drive Master Plan is a small area plan specifically for Highland Drive. The plan recognizes
that “Infill opportunities are limited; open spaces and energy resources are diminishing. The Plan
suggests new zoning patterns along Highland Drive”.

Segment A is identified as the section from 3900 S. to Arbor Lane and is described in the plan:
      “Holladay controls the east side of Highland Drive to Murray Holladay Rd. and both sides from
      there south to Arbor Lane. The street is currently developed with right-of-way widths ranging
      from 80 feet to 106 feet. Land use patterns are primarily commercial and multi-family
      residential developments. “

The plan acknowledges that “Infill opportunities are limited; open spaces and energy resources are
diminishing. The Plan suggests new zoning patterns along Highland Drive”.

In Segment A, the following land use strategy is identified: “Existing zoning in this segment has
developed a healthy mix of commercial and higher density residential uses. Any changes to the current
zoning patterns should be considered only if the new zoning will enhance the existing uses and
strengthen the whole City.”

As the proposed zoning change is to a professional office zone, Section B. “Commerce” of the Highland
Drive Master Plan is also relevant to this application. The commerce section reiterates that business is a
key economic engine for the City of Holladay and states that “Measures that attract economic vitality
while protecting core community values should be encouraged along all segments of Highland Drive as
allowed in this document.”

New zoning is the first of six strategies for “revitalization of the existing commercial uses and for
encouraging new commercial uses where permitted in this document along all segments of Highland
Drive”
    1. Allow new zoning that fosters the grouping of compatible businesses in order to enhance
       economic synergy in the current commercial areas;

Highland Drive is a major arterial road with widths up to 106 feet. The existing road configuration in this
segment of Highland Drive has been fully improved to 5 lanes and can support the minimal increased
traffic capacity generated by the development of a professional office on a small parcel.




4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                              Page 2 of 7
                                           City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning




Holladay General Plan (2025)

Chapter 5: Walkable and Connected Community
CC Goal 5: Support sustainable growth through compact, mixed-use, and transit-friendly development as
identified in the Future Land Use Map.
         CC Policy 5.1. Incentivize compact, mixed-use development along key corridors and near transit
         stops to encourage walkability and reduce vehicle trips.

Chapter 6: A Strong Local Economy
Highland Drive “The Highland Drive small area is the third largest economic district within the City by
gross sales, generating $23 million in 2023. Within the area, food service is the number one sales
generator followed closely by repair and maintenance businesses. This district is one that may see
change within the life of the plan because of underutilized properties, planned improvements to Highland
Drive, and its proximity to growth in the adjacent City of Millcreek. See Chapter 5 Walkable and
Connected Community and the Highland Drive Master Plan for more information.”
Business Retention and Attraction
Highland Drive is identified as a Minor Economic District (see Map 4.1) “…the City has limited
commercial space, redevelopment of mixed-use nodes must be thoughtful to provide a variety of spaces
for potential business.”
LE Goal 1: Collaborate to enhance existing commercial property values and promote new development
while maintaining neighborhood stability.
LE Policy 1.1: Identify opportunities for and maximize the feasibility of commercial redevelopment and
infill within existing commercial areas.

Chapter 8: Responsible Renewal and Infill
RI Policy 1.3: Direct new commercial development to existing commercial and activity areas.
RI Action 1.3.i. Establish, enhance, and maintain appropriate land use, architectural and/or landscape
buffers to protect neighborhoods from encroachment where uses transition or have incompatible
characteristics.
RI Action 1.3.ii. Encourage mixed‐use development at the Royal Holladay Hills site, Holladay Village,
Holladay Crossroads area, in addition to other key areas of the City that are transitioning from solely
commercial to mixed‐use

REZONE PROPOSAL ANALYSIS
The applicant’s proposal to rezone the parcel, which has frontage onto Highland Drive, is in line with the
Highland Drive Master Plan and further supported by the Holladay General Plan.

Within the adopted code for the Professional Office Zone, a purpose is defined in §13.44.010A:
        “The purpose of the PO Zone is to set standards for areas in appropriate locations for
        professional and business offices, personal services and other compatible uses such as a
        commercial daycare facility. Developments in the PO Zone are intended to be compatible with



4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                             Page 3 of 7
                                           City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning

        abutting residential uses and to buffer residential development or zones from more intense land
        uses.”

Management of Rezone Requests to the P-O zone is detailed in §13.44.010B.
      “In evaluating any rezone application for this zone, preference shall be given to those properties
      which:
              1. Occur within a General Plan district supporting appropriate of either Professional
              Office-Commercial (PO-C), Mixed-Use development, or other similar areas such as the
              Highland Drive Small Area Master Plan area (HDMP),
              2. Will result in an upgrade of the building and/or site, and
              3. Will enhance property values and contribute to the economic sustainability of the
              City.

The subject property is across the street from a large commercial development that has several uses of
high intensity including a fast-food restaurant with drive through, a gas station, and a grocery store.
There are multiple other commercial uses in the same development. Several other businesses occupy
the other two corners of the 4500 S. and Highland Drive intersection, and other professional office space
is located to the south on the west side of Highland Dr. The east side of Highland Drive in the vicinity is
largely R-2-10 zoning, though it can be noted that there are only two other residential properties that
have direct driveway access/frontage onto Highland Drive as opposed to streets into condos or PUDs
with multiple units not directly fronting Highland Dr. Residential driveway access on a major arterial
road can be challenging to navigate.

Considering the elements in the Highland Drive Small Area Master Plan, the goal to incentivize
redevelopment that increases economic vitality, and an assessment of the existing development and
infrastructure in the area, a P-O zone is considered appropriate as a land use with a lower intensity that
blends between residential and commercial uses.
The isolated nature and smaller size of the parcel limits redevelopment to a degree as parking and other
zoning standards have to be taken into account into redevelopment. A canal that runs along Highland
Drive in front of the subject property further limits development, as parking cannot be located there.

Redevelopment that creates a new building that meets commercial codes creates usable and accessible
space for businesses into the future.

CHANGE OF USES
The Table of Allowed Uses (§13.100) guides land use in each zone. The shift to a professional office zone
from a residential zone change does shift the primary use significantly, professional office space is
commonly located on arterials and are often adjacent to multi-family residential uses. The change to
professional offices and other allowed uses would not have a significant impact on the Highland Drive
infrastructure or the surrounding properties. Any proposed use must comply with parking standards for
the use as detailed in §13.80.




4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                             Page 4 of 7
                                           City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning

REDEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
As a new structure and redevelopment are a driver behind the rezone request, included is a review of the
zoning standards for the P-O zone and how they differ from the R-2-10 zone.

        LOT AREA:       10,000 SF MIN
        LAND USES:      A focus on professional and non-professional services within an office or clinical
        setting.
        LOT WIDTH:   65 FT
        SETBACKS:    Front:10 FT-minimum, Maximum no greater than the abutting buildings
                     Side: Same as abutting properties, graduated height applies
                     Corner side: 20 FT
                     Rear: 20 FT, or 30 FT if abutting residential
        HEIGHT:      40 FT
        COVERAGE:    70% maximum with impervious surface provisions
        LANDSCAPING: Same as C-2 zone requirements; buffering against residential uses
        SIGNAGE:     Same as previously required by the RM zone, monument and crown signs only
        APPROVALS: Standard approval procedures using the three-step method adopted in Chapter
        3
        LIGHTING,    Same as O-R-D zone standards
        PARKING,     “       ‘
        WALKWAYS, “          “
        SCREENING,   “       “
        NUISANCE,    “       “
        OUTSIDE STORAGE: “ “


TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission allow the applicant time to present their petition and to
also gather input from the public via required Public Hearing. Merits of the proposal should be discussed
within the framework of points mentioned above (General Plan guidance). As legislative matters are often
complex, this item may be continued to a later date for further discussion and final recommendation.
However, if a recommendation to the City Council can be derived from tonight’s discussion, a set of
findings is required to accompany the motion, as per ordinance 13.07.030.G.2.

Staff is in favor of the rezone application, as the identified zone is supported by the HDMP and enables
redevelopment in line with the HDMP. Staff recommends that the hearing be continued with the rezone
applied to both parcels with the qualification of a conditional use permit be obtained for residential use
in the home behind the new development.

Staff urges the Commission again to moderate the discussion around the following points, anticipating
that the hearing is continued once the rear parcel is added to this application.
        a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
        General Plan




4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                            Page 5 of 7
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning

        b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
        development in the vicinity
        c. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect abutting properties; and
        d. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, such as,
        roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage
        systems, environmental hazard mitigation measures, water supply, and wastewater and refuse
        collection.

CONSIDERATION STANDARDS
13.07.030G: Approval Standards:
       1. A decision to amend the text of this title or the zoning map is a matter within the legislative
           discretion of the City Council. The City Council, after reviewing the Planning Commission
           recommendation, may:
               a. Adopt the amendment as recommended by the planning commission;
               b. Make any revisions to the proposed amendment that it considers appropriate;
               c. Remand the proposed amendment back to the planning commission for further
                    consideration; or
               d. Reject the proposed amendment.
       2. In reviewing a text or map amendment, the following factors should be considered:
               a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                    of the city's general plan;
               b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
                    existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
               c. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect abutting
                    properties; and
               d. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, such
                    as, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools,
                    stormwater drainage systems, environmental hazard mitigation measures, water
                    supply, and wastewater and refuse collection.


RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission continue the hearing so that both parcels can be
included in the rezone. Once both parcels are included, it is recommended that the Planning
Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to amend the Holladay Zoning map
from R-2-10 to P-O at both 4545 S. and 4555 S. Highland Dr. based on the following findings:

        1. Compliance with the Purpose of the Land Development Code by promoting and facilitating
           the orderly growth and development within the City of Holladay.
        2. Compliance with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan by establishing appropriate
           development standards for all uses and zoning categories within the City of Holladay


SUGGESTED MOTIONS



4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                              Page 6 of 7
                                           City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning


For a potential motion to motion to continue for further discussion:

“I Motion to continue the application by Jamie Walker to amend City of Holladay zoning map for
property located at 4545 S. Highland Drive so that the application can also include 4555 S. Highland
Drive to the next regularly scheduled meeting”


For a potential motion to recommend Approval or Denial:

“I Motion to forward a recommendation to the City Council to (APPROVE, DENY) an application by Jamie
Walker to amend the City of Holladay zoning map for . acres of land located at 4545 S. Highland Drive,
based upon the following findings”




4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                            Page 7 of 7
                           NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
                          PROPOSED REZONE: R-2-10 to P-O
Date:                          TUESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2025
Time:                          As close to 6:00 pm as possible
Location:                      City Hall – City Council Chambers
Hearing Body:                  Planning Commission
Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay will Hold a public hearing
before the Planning Commission to consider a zone change application
(File #25-4-10) submitted by Jamie Walker, representing property owner
Matthew Michalis. The application proposes to rezone a single parcel
totaling approximately .14 acres (7,623 sq. ft) of property located at 4545
S Highland Drive, from the R-2 Zone to the P-O Zone. The Planning
Commission, during this meeting, will provide a recommendation to the
City Council.
The City Council will make a final decision at a separately noticed meeting.
*An entirely separate site development application will be required prior to
development if the proposed zone change is approved.*

Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm 12/15/2025 to Carrie Marsh,
cmarsh@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments received by the designated
times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.

Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to join this
meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch
the video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay’s website.
ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on 12/5/2025 by order of the Community and Economic Development Director,
Jonathan Teerlink to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your residence,
please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.




                              NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
                             PROPOSED REZONE: R-2-10 to P-O
 Date:                          TUESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2025
 Time:                          As close to 6:00 pm as possible
 Location:                      City Hall – City Council Chambers
 Hearing Body:                  Planning Commission
Notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay will Hold a public hearing
before the Planning Commission to consider a zone change application
(File #25-4-10) submitted by Jamie Walker, representing property owner
Matthew Michalis. The application proposes to rezone a single parcel
totaling approximately .14 acres (7,623 sq. ft) of property located at 4545
S Highland Drive, from the R-2 Zone to the P-O Zone. The Planning
Commission, during this meeting, will provide a recommendation to the
City Council.
The City Council will make a final decision at a separately noticed meeting.
*An entirely separate site development application will be required prior to
development if the proposed zone change is approved.*
 Please submit comments via email by 5:00 pm 12/15/2025 to Carrie Marsh,
 cmarsh@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments received by the designated
 times will be forwarded to the Commission prior to the meeting.

 Additional information regarding this item & instructions how to join this
 meeting remotely can be found on the City’s website and on the posted
 agenda, prior to the meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to watch
 the video stream of the meeting on the City of Holladay’s website.
ATTENTION: This notice was mailed on 12/5/2025 by order of the Community and Economic Development Director,
Jonathan Teerlink to all residents within 500 feet from the subject property. If you are not the owner of your residence,
please notify the owner regarding this matter. Thank you.
                              NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay Planning Commission will hold a public
hearing on Tuesday, the 16th day of December 2025, as close to 6:00 P.M. as possible.
The purpose of the hearing is open a comment period while the commission considers a rezone
application submitted by Jamie Walker, representing property owner Matthew Michaelis for
approx. .14 acres (7,623 sq. ft) of property located at 4545 S. Highland Dr. The request is to
change the zoning designation from R-2-10 (Residential Two-family) to P-O (Professional
Office), with an intent to redevelop the parcel with a new structure for an office use in the future.

The proposed rezone would change the allowed land uses from a two-family residential use per
10,000 square feet of land, to a professional office use. Allowed land use by zone can be
reviewed in the Allowed Use Table in Chapter §13.100 Appendix A of the City of Holladay
Municipal Code.

The proposed zone amendment is available for public inspection on the City’s website
www.holladayut.gov and at the Community Development Dept. during normal business
hours.
The public can remotely watch the Live Stream of the meeting. To provide a public
comment or to comment on any public hearing, you have the following options:
1. In-person attendance at Holladay City Hall or
2. Email your comments by 5:00 PM on the date of the meeting to
cmarsh@holladayut.gov or call 801-527-3890.




CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the
above agenda notice was posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov the
Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn, and was emailed to the Salt Lake
Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

DATE POSTED: [ date ]
Stephanie N. Carlson MMC,
City Recorder City of Holladay
                           4555 and 4545 S Highland Drive Rezone

The property rezoning requested fits with the Highland Drive Master plan Segment A. The
Building the proposed Jamie Walker Architects building is compatible with other uses along
Highland drive. Building a new building allows for an upgraded building, Landscape and design
elements that fit in the area and follow the Highland Drive Master Plan. The development
accommodates and allows the existing home to remain.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WINDOW HEAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOWER             X'-X" UNO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAIN              X'-X" UNO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      bringing families together
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UPPER             X'-X" UNO                           801-930-9499 office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 www.walkerhomedesign.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      34' 1" OVERALL HEIGHT OF HOME

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KEYNOTES
                                                                                                                                                18' - 8"                                                                                        12"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12"
4050 SL


          8' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7"




                                                                                                                          10' - 2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12"




                                    11' - 3"
                                                                         4080 DBL
                                                                                                                                                                                +22' 7 1/4" TOP PLATE @ UPPER LEVEL
                                                                                              14' - 3 1/2"
                                                                                                                   3080

                                                                  HVAC




                                                                                                                                     3080
                                                                                               3080
          11' - 6 1/2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                      9' - 1 1/8"
4050 SL




                                   Bed                                                                              UP
                                                                         2868




                            11' - 3" x 11' - 6"
                                                                         2668




                                                                                                                                                                  38' - 1"
                                                                                                                                                                                +13' 6 1/8" FINISHED FLOOR @ UPPER LEVEL



                    2668                                                                                                                    Storage                             +12' 1 3/8" TOP PLATE @ MAIN LEVEL


                                                                                                                                            18' - 8" x 38' - 1"
          6' - 0"




                         WIC
                                                                         3080




                                                                                                                                                                                                      10' - 1 1/8"
                                                           BATH

                                                                                    4' - 0"             CLOSET

                                                                                    3080      4080 DBL         4080 DBL
                         5' - 0"                      9' - 3"

                                                                                                                                                                                PLATE HEIGHTS ARE
                                                                                                                                                                              MEASURED FROM MAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                     FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                             ALSO SEE CROSS SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                               FOR FLOOR HEIGHTS
                                                                                                                          7' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                +2' 0 1/4" FINISHED FLOOR @ MAIN LEVEL
4050 SL




                                                                                                                                                                                +0' 6" TOP OF FOUNDATION
          11' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING GRADE                                                                          EXISTING GRADE


                                               Bunk
                                        17' - 1" x 11' - 6"
                                                                                                       3080




                                                                                                                                                                                                      9' - 8 1/2"
                                                                                                        12' - 0"

                                                17' - 1"
                                                                                                                                 6' - 4"




                                                                                                   COLD STORAGE




                                                                                                                                                                                -9' 2 1/2" BOTTOM OF FOOTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REVIEW CHECK LIST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Window sizes and locations line up with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    foundation page
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ceiling heights are correct
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Door sizes are correct
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Flue Location

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    client signature

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    client signature

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    builder signature

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    whd signature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Copyright C Walker Home Design INC. All rights reserved.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The use of these plans is expressly limited to Walker
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Home Design INC. and those who have purchased plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  with a letter of usage. Reproduction,re-use, or publication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       by any method, in whole or in part, is prohibited.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WHD Office

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Designed for




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ABOVE GRADE FOOTAGE: 3,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Date                             NOV. 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Drawn by                              KJW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PRINTED:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11/18/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3:08:20 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sheet                  COLD STORAGE: 78


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1/8" SCALE ON SIZE B SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         33             LOWER LEVEL: 1,871
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MAIN LEVEL: 2,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20x TOTAL: 5,834
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UPPER LEVEL: 1,885


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOWER LEVEL FLOOR PLAN                                SCALE:                  1/4" = 1'-0"
UPPER LEVEL FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WINDOW HEAD
                                                                     6060 SL                                    6060 SL                                      6060 SL                6060 SL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOWER                                X'-X" UNO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAIN                                 X'-X" UNO
                                                                                                                                                                       19' - 2"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     bringing families together
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UPPER                                X'-X" UNO                  801-930-9499 office




                                                                                                   4080 DBL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               www.walkerhomedesign.com
                                                                                         HVAC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KEYNOTES
                         11' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                             6060 SL
                                                                                                                               12' - 11 3/4"
                                                  Office 5




                                                                                                                                                                                              12' - 2"
                                                  15' - 0" x 11' - 0"                                         PRINTER                                            Office 6
                                                                                                                                                                 19' - 2" x 12' - 2"




                                                                                  3080




                                                                                                                                               3080
                                                      15' - 0 1/2"
                                                                                                                          DN
            3060 FIXED




                                                                                  3080
                         9' - 2 1/2"




                                                  Office 4
   3060 FIXED




                                                  15' - 0" x 9' - 2"




                                                                                                                                                                                              12' - 0 1/2"



                                                                                                                                                                                                             6060 SL
                                                                                                                                                               Rendering
                                                                                                                                                                 19' - 2" x 12' - 0"
                                       4080 DBL

                                                                                         4' - 0"
                                                       6' - 0"




                                                                                  3080




                                                                     BATH
                                                                                                                                                      3080

                                                                     9' - 3"
                                       4080 DBL
                                                                                  3080




                                                                                                                               10' - 3 1/2"

                                                                                                              LIBRARY




                                                                                                                                                                                              14' - 3 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                  Drafting                                                                                     6060 SL                                                                                                 6060 SL                 6060 SL
                         12' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3080
                                                     Office 3                                                                                                     18' - 1" X 14' - 3"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15' - 0 1/2"                                         14' - 3 1/2"                                                            19' - 2"
                                                     15' - 0" x 12' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PRINTER
                                                                                                               6040 SL.


                                                      15' - 0 1/2"                                                                                                       18' - 1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sales                                                                                                                   Office 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12' - 2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12' - 2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3080




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3080
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15' - 0" x 12' - 2"                                                                                                        19' - 2" x 12' - 2"

                                                  3050 S.H. 3050 S.H. 3050 S.H.                                                                               3050 S.H. 3050 S.H. 3050 S.H.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UP                  DN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7' - 10 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BREAK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Conference




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14' - 4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            42' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3080 POCKET            4' - 10 1/2"                                                      19' - 2" x 14' - 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3080



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REVIEW CHECK LIST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STORAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Window sizes and locations




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3080
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Door sizes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BATH                                                                                                                                                                                          Ceiling heights are accurate: treys,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  coffered, etc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Flooring materials are correct
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5' - 6"                        9' - 3"              4' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                 Garage door size(s)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6080 DBL                                                                         Flue Chase Location
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2080 FIXED                     2080 FIXED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  client signature

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  client signature




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  builder signature

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  whd signature


                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12' - 0"                          Lobby




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Copyright C Walker Home Design INC. All rights reserved.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The use of these plans is expressly limited to Walker


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      18' - 1" x 12' - 0"                                                                                                      Reception                                                                        Home Design INC. and those who have purchased plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                with a letter of usage. Reproduction,re-use, or publication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     by any method, in whole or in part, is prohibited.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18' - 1" x 12' - 0"                                                                     WHD Office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4080
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2080 FIXED              2080 FIXED

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Designed for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             18' - 1"                                                                                                               18' - 1"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ABOVE GRADE FOOTAGE: 3,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3050 S.H. 3050 S.H. 3050 S.H.                                                                                          3050 S.H. 3050 S.H. 3050 S.H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Date




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3' - 6"                              12' - 0"                    3' - 6"                     12' - 0"                            3' - 6"                    12' - 0"                    3' - 6"                                                                          NOV. 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Drawn by                              KJW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1"                     50' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PRINTED:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11/18/2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3:08:20 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sheet                  COLD STORAGE: 78


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1/8" SCALE ON SIZE B SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       34             LOWER LEVEL: 1,871
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN LEVEL: 2,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20x TOTAL: 5,834
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UPPER LEVEL: 1,885


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN LEVEL FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                    SCALE:                  1/4" = 1'-0"
                    Neighborhood Mee ng Notes

                           11-17-2025

                         Items Discussed

Fencing

Trees/Landscaping

Traﬃc

Building type

Building use
Carrie Marsh

From:             Janice Gee
Sent:             Wednesday, December 10, 2025 10:17 AM
To:               Carrie Marsh
Subject:          Proposed REZONE from R-2 to P-O

Follow Up Flag:   Follow up
Flag Status:      Flagged



[External Email - Use Caution]

I am opposed to changing the proposed parcel of land at 4545 S Highland Drive to professional office
space. This is unnecessary and will impact residential homes on both sides of the property.
One more commercial bldg is the last thing needed on the east side of Highland drive, contributing to
higher street traffic and general congestion. Please do not approve this request!!
Thank you,
Janice Gee
1836 E Cottonwood Glen Court
Holladay UT. 84117




                                                    1
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ
ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŝƚǇŽĨ,ŽůůĂĚĂǇ
ϴϬϭ͘ϱϮϳ͘ϯϴϵϬ

 &/>η n/a                               COMMISSION MEETING MINUTES
 4                               /^/KEdzW͗
  n/a                                    Administrative/Procedural:

      4 n/a                 Commission shall approve, approve with changes or continue
                                         to a later date the agenda item




   6  4
  City of Holladay Planning Commission   ^/ds//E/dzDW

  4
  n/a

      4
  n/a

 'EZ>W>E/^dZ/d4
  n/a
 /dzKhE/>/^dZ/d͗
  N/A
 Wh>/EKd/d/>^4
  n/a
 4
  Adoption of Meeting Minutes

      4
  UCA§52-4-203, 206
  2.01.080
  13.06.030


   4




                                         EŽƚĞƐ͗

                                         Corrections made according to commission direction on 12-1-2020


 4
  Jonathan Teerlink, City Planner

                                                                                                           ?
 1                                               DRAFT
 2
 3                           MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
 4                            PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
 5
 6                                     Tuesday, October 7, 2025
 7                                             6:00 PM
 8                                      City Council Chambers
 9                                       4580 South 2300 East
10                                          Holladay, Utah
11
12   ATTENDANCE:
13
14   Planning Commission Members:                        City Staff:
15
16   Dennis Roach, Chair                                 , Jonathan Teerlink, Community and Economic
17   Karianne Prince,                                            Development Director
18   Angela Gong
19   Jill Fonte
20   Paul Cunningham
21   Brian Berndt
22
23   CONVENE REGULAR MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
24   Chair Roach called the Regular Meeting to order at 5:30 p.m. There was one Public Hearing item
25   on the agenda. All members of the Commission were present with the exception of Commissioner
26   Patrick Tripeny. The Opening Statement was read aloud by Commissioner Prince.
27
28   CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARING
29   1.      City of Holladay General Plan Update - Public Hearing. Continued Discussion and
30           Presentation by City Staff and Third-Party Consultants, Logan Simpson, of a 2025
31           Update to the Existing Holladay General Plan. 'Holladay Horizons' a 2025
32           Comprehensive General Plan Update, will be Reviewed Over Multiple Meetings,
33           Culminating with a Recommendation by the Planning Commission to the City
34           Council for Final Consideration. Review and Consideration shall be in Accordance
35           with Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-Part4. File #00-6-04-2.
36   Chair Roach explained that this is a Continued Public Hearing item. A discussion and presentation
37   took place at the last Planning Commission Meeting. It was determined that the General Plan
38   would be discussed in sections so that all Commissioners were able to review the document in
39   detail.
40
41   Chair Roach opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing remained
42   open.
43
44   Community and Economic Development Director, Jonathan Teerlink, suggested that before
45   Chapters 1, 2, and 3 are reviewed, there should be a review of the draft document as a whole.


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/07/2025

                                                    1
 1   There can be a review of the format, the chapter titles, layout, and overall presentation. If there is
 2   agreement about the presentation of the draft, then the specific chapters can be reviewed.
 3
 4   The Planning Commission discussed the formatting of the draft version of the General Plan.
 5   Commissioner Cunningham commented that he likes much of the draft document, but Section 3 it
 6   lists the policies and goals. It does not, however, link the goals to the title of the chapter. This
 7   becomes a problem when there are Goals 1, 2, and 3 in the next chapter. If someone is referencing
 8   Goal 1, there are many different goals associated with it because of the different chapters. He
 9   thought it made sense to tie the goal to the title of each chapter for clarification. For example, it
10   could be 3-1 or something similar. As for the image of the Casto Home, he did not believe it
11   should be included because it is not necessarily a demonstration of strong planning.
12
13   Commissioner Fonte found the document to be easy to navigate, and she liked that it took into
14   account a lot of feedback that was provided from the community. She likes the way the document
15   is organized to focus on the priorities of the community moving forward. That being said, there is
16   a lot of detail in the document that she does not believe most residents will be interested in. She
17   suggested that summaries be provided where possible to make it more accessible for readers.
18
19   Chair Roach pointed out that the General Plan is a document the Planning Commission will often
20   use as part of future agenda item reviews. He wanted to identify potential missteps during this
21   process. Commissioner Fonte noted that there is a desire to understand where to look to obtain
22   certain information. The Commission needs to understand the layout and where relevant
23   information can be found. It will take time to become familiar with this version of the plan.
24
25   Chair Roach asked if it would be useful for Staff to reference specific sections of the General Plan
26   when an item comes to the Planning Commission for consideration, which was confirmed.
27   Commissioner Fonte stated that it would also be beneficial to have a physical copy of the General
28   Plan available for Planning Commission Meetings rather than jumping back and forth on the digital
29   version. It was confirmed that a physical copy of the General Plan can be provided. Mr. Teerlink
30   reported that there can be a section in each Staff Report titled “General Plan Compliance.”
31   Commissioner Berndt reported that the current Staff Reports include references. When looking at
32   an electronic version of the document, it is possible to jump to a specific reference point.
33   Commissioner Prince agreed that relevant references are normally provided in the reports.
34
35   Commissioner Prince not had the opportunity to fully review the draft version of the General Plan,
36   but she liked what she has been able to review so far. Commissioner Gong liked many of elements
37   of the draft document. She tried to read the introduction through her eyes, as someone who uses
38   the plan often, and through the eyes of a resident who does not refer to the plan as often. While
39   the details included in the first chapter are important, she believes there needs to be more generality
40   to clearly outline what a General Plan does. It feels like there is something more general that could
41   be added to make this document more accessible. Chair Roach wondered if there should be a
42   subparagraph added with a more general explanation. There can be detailed information after that.
43   Commissioner Gong thought that would be beneficial. As for the chart in Chapter 2, the colors
44   used could be changed to reduce confusion.
45


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/07/2025

                                                       2
 1   Commissioner Gong referenced Page 26, which has the future land use versus zoning table. This
 2   is a helpful table, and she believes the differentiation is important. However, she wondered if it
 3   might be possible to expand that table. She did not want the information to be confusing to
 4   residents. Delaney Sillman from Logan Simpson Design, reported that the future land use versus
 5   zoning table could be expanded to encompass what the General Plan versus the other City
 6   regulations. That information could fit nicely into the introduction section. The direction provided
 7   by the Planning Commission has been beneficial so far. Some changes can be made, including a
 8   more general introduction for clarity and an expansion of certain items in the document.
 9
10   Ms. Sillman shared a comment from the Steering Committee process. She explained that there
11   was a comment made at that time that someone moving to Holladay might want to look at the
12   Future Land Use Map to determine how the areas next to a property might change in the future. It
13   is something that might be considered when someone is looking into purchasing a home or
14   business. There are multiple ways someone might use the General Plan, so it is important to think
15   about tweaks that can be made to the introductory section to better address the different users.
16
17   Chair Roach asked if the Zoning Map could be placed next to the Future Land Use Map so there
18   is a clear comparison. It was noted that this information is in the plan portal. As for inclusion in
19   the General Plan, it is important to remember that zoning maps change. Mr. Teerlink explained
20   that the portal is convenient because the zoning map changes can be seen there. Putting it in the
21   portal means there can be updates made whenever there is a change. It is still possible to make
22   side-by-side comparisons. Chair Roach noted that the General Plan could include a map, but the
23   document could indicate when that map was approved. Discussions were had about zoning.
24
25   The goals, policies, and actions were discussed. When looking at the policies, the Planning
26   Commission should consider what subsequent changes would potentially come from this policy
27   and whether that is the correct direction. Commissioner Berndt asked about the survey that was
28   conducted. He wanted to know if survey respondents were asked how many times they used the
29   General Plan. This was denied. Commissioner Berndt wanted to understand how often it is used
30   by residents. He read language related to responsible infill and renewal. While he understands
31   the intent of the language, the interpretation will be different depending on whether the reader is a
32   developer or a neighbor. A neighbor is less likely to consider something to be responsible
33   development. Some of the language in the introduction section can be simplified. He asked if
34   there was a reference to the survey responses in the General Plan document, which was confirmed.
35   Ms. Sillman clarified that the introductions for the chapters mention community support. In the
36   Appendix, specific numbers from the community engagement process will be included.
37
38   Commissioner Berndt asked about the process for developing the survey questions. He wanted to
39   know if the previous plan had been examined. Ms. Sillman explained that there were initial
40   discussions about items from the previous plan, including items that have already been done or are
41   not as relevant. In addition, there were discussions about issues that Staff has dealt with
42   consistently. In order to update the General Plan document, the previous goals and policies were
43   the starting point. The goals look a lot different than before. On the other hand, the policies were
44   tweaked slightly from the previous versions. There was then feedback received from the
45   community on the drafted policies. After that, there was work done with the Steering Community


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/07/2025

                                                      3
 1   to think about how to interpret all of the community engagement. That is how the goals and
 2   policies were determined.
 3
 4   Commissioner Berndt mentioned the primary and secondary listed. He asked if secondary means
 5   it can be approved as an allowed use. Ms. Sillman shared an example for Country Estates. When
 6   there are discussions about primary and secondary uses, it represents the whole area and not only
 7   the individual parcels within it. This is not something that is happening at the lot level, but within
 8   the entire Country Estates area. It is envisioned that primarily, the uses will be single-family
 9   residential, but there will likely also be some integration of open space and recreation. The primary
10   and secondary here are very different than the concept of primary and secondary uses within the
11   Zoning Ordinance. Commissioner Berndt wanted to make sure all of the information was clear.
12
13   Commissioner Berndt mentioned the land uses on Page 13 and pointed out that there are restaurants
14   listed as a land use. There is no land use category for restaurants. Some of the land uses listed are
15   land use categories, and some are not, which could be problematic. Commissioner Cunningham
16   noted that this is not a zone map, but is a vision of what could change in the future. He shared an
17   example scenario from Midvale. It is important to clarify that the General Plan represents a vision
18   of what the City could look like in the future. The City Council will ultimately make policy
19   decisions that will impact what the City looks like, but the General Plan is a visioning document.
20
21   Mr. Teerlink asked if there is a belief that there is too much specificity. Commissioner Bernt
22   confirmed this. He reiterated that a restaurant is not a land use, and he is unsure why it is listed
23   here. The General Plan should be as general as possible with specificity where appropriate.
24   Mr. Teerlink asked if something more generalized would be more acceptable to the Commission.
25   Commissioner Berndt explained that he found this section confusing because certain items are
26   listed as land uses, but on the map, that is not a reference point. He did not want to create
27   confusion. While he understands why it is being listed, it might be mislabeled. Ms. Sillman stated
28   that it is possible to change the “land uses” name if that is confusing for readers. Since there are a
29   lot of mixed-use designations in Holladay, a breakout of the intent could be helpful. She reiterated
30   that it is possible to change the names for clarity, but the broader question is whether that level of
31   detail is still helpful to guide what that mixed-use designation would potentially look like.
32   Commissioner Fonte believed the level of detail provided was helpful. She pointed out that
33   personal services are not considered a land use either, but they provide clarity about the mixed-use
34   areas.
35
36   Commissioner Berndt mentioned the map on Page 24 of the draft document. It has the opportunity
37   zones and the opportunity corridors. He suggested that some sections be bolded so there is more
38   clarity. In the opportunity corridors, he also suggested that the size of the street be included for
39   reference. Commissioner Berndt mentioned Chapter 3. There has been a lot of discussion about
40   the expectation that there be good design, but there is no real direction provided. It might be
41   helpful to have an implementation strategy related to design standards or something with more
42   direction. Mr. Teerlink explained that this element is complicated by the State Legislature, which
43   tied the hands of cities on single-family residential zones. Commissioner Berndt agreed that for
44   residential, there should not be design standards. However, there should be a measure of scale.
45   For example, in his neighborhood, a house was torn down and a much larger house was built there,


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/07/2025

                                                       4
 1   which towers over everything else in the area. That decision completely changed the character of
 2   the neighborhood. Scale is something the City could focus on to address neighborhood character.
 3
 4   Commissioner Gong asked if Commissioner Berndt was talking about Page 52, which has Policy
 5   1.3. It mentions maintaining the established development pattern and neighborhood character by
 6   guiding the scale, form, and style of new construction to reflect the existing context. Mr. Teerlink
 7   referenced the current Zoning Ordinance, which has six different dimensions of mass and scale
 8   requirements. It is possible to craft language for the General Plan that points the City in the
 9   direction of the goal to further refine what “neighborhood character” looks like.
10
11   Commissioner Berndt discussed the transportation section of the draft document. There is a lot of
12   language related to transportation and walkability, but there is no implementation strategy that
13   outlines how issues will be solved. For instance, if Holladay Boulevard is backed up and congested
14   for a significant portion of the day, there should be language about how that could be solved or
15   how the City will address that in the future. There does not need to be a lot of specificity, but there
16   should be an acknowledgement that the City has considered the existing issues. In Cottonwood
17   Heights, there were difficulties because there were so many access points on arterial streets. Part
18   of the strategy was to control access points with medians, which changed the function of the street.
19
20   Commissioner Berndt next discussed economic development on Page 45 of the document and
21   noted that there aren’t specific target industries mentioned. Part of what the City should be doing
22   is identifying businesses that are not in the City, but there is a desire to see in the future.
23   Mr. Teerlink reported that there has been some discussion about this topic. Commissioner Berndt
24   thought it would be meaningful to have additional discussions about this and how it fits into the
25   plan. He referenced a term on Page 46 of the draft document and suggested it be further clarified.
26
27   Chair Roach mentioned Page 47 of the document. He asked if the infographic in the top right
28   corner would be updated, because Country Estates does not seem to be accurate. Ms. Sillman
29   confirmed that there will be an update because there is an error on that map. Commissioner Prince
30   is not sure that the photograph chosen is the best one and suggested it be changed to something
31   else. Ms. Sillman confirmed that the photo in the document can be changed. Chair Roach
32   appreciated the images that are included in the document, but believes the pictures should draw
33   attention to what is being outlined in the text. Commissioner Prince shared additional comments
34   about the photographs chosen. There are some locations that she recognizes, but there are others
35   that she is unable to identify. She asked if there would be value in stating the image location.
36
37   Ms. Sillman reported that community feedback indicated there is no desire to see Holladay change
38   in a lot of ways. When it comes to the photographs chosen, there is a privacy component. The
39   focus should be on the idea of what the area could look like rather than something that is overly
40   specific or identifiable. Commissioner Fonte reported that the Holladay Business Advisory Board
41   and Mayor Rob Dahle have emphasized the shop local campaign over the past couple of years. If
42   there is going to continue to be an emphasis on shopping local she questioned whether there should
43   be something related to this included in the General Plan. Mr. Teerlink reported that the scale of
44   economy was addressed in previous versions of the General Plan and was highlighted as something
45   that needs to be retained in this updated version. He mentioned the language on pages 88 and 89


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/07/2025

                                                       5
 1   of the document, which relates to shopping locally. Ms. Sillman reported that it is possible to call
 2   out a specific program in the draft document if that is desired by the Commission.
 3
 4   Chair Roach referenced the following language: “Investigate the feasibility of increased density,”
 5   and “Consider implementing a community redevelopment agency.” He asked if this kind of
 6   language is standard for a General Plan. Mr. Teerlink confirmed that these can be looked into as
 7   options. When the City pursues grants, it can be helpful to have that kind of language included.
 8
 9   Chair Roach asked for additional comments about the format of the draft General Plan document.
10   He questioned whether the Commission would like to focus on ahead of the next Planning
11   Commission Meeting. Commissioner Cunningham noted that Commissioners previously
12   reviewed the first three chapters of the draft plan. He believes there are some goals and policies
13   that need additional refinement, especially in Chapter 4 of the draft document. At the next meeting,
14   there should be a discussion about that section in particular. Commissioner Gong would like to
15   spend more time discussing the policies, because spread across the chapters, there are some that
16   are in tension with one another. She mentioned some of the policies in the chapter about natural
17   spaces. She pointed out that it can be hard to focus on those while also tackling some of the other
18   policies. It is important that all of the different policies in the document are able to co-exist.
19
20   Chair Roach asked the Commissioners to continue to review the draft document ahead of the next
21   meeting. It was reported that the next Planning Commission Meeting will take place on
22   October 21, 2025. Mr. Teerlink noted that there will also be a meeting on October 28, 2025. At
23   the meeting on October 28, 2025, there will be a Code Amendment brought to the Commission,
24   which relates to the Urban Wildland Interface Overlay Zone and Building Code. Commissioner
25   Prince will not be able to attend that meeting in person but might be able to call into the meeting.
26   Chair Roach will not be in town on October 21, 2025, and asked Commissioner Prince to run that
27   meeting.
28
29   Commissioner Prince moved to CONTINUE the City of Holladay General Plan Update and the
30   Public Hearing to the Planning Commission Meeting on October 21, 2025. Commissioner Gong
31   seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Cunningham-Yes; Commissioner Fonte-
32   Yes; Commissioner Prince-Yes; Commissioner Gong-Yes; Commissioner Berndt-Yes; Chair
33   Roach-Yes. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.
34
35   ADJOURN
36   Chair Roach moved to ADJOURN. There was no second. The motion passed with the
37   unanimous consent of the Commission.
38
39   The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 6:45 p.m.




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/07/2025

                                                      6
1    I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
2    of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held on Tuesday, October 7, 2025.
3
4
5

6    Teri Forbes
 7   Teri Forbes
 8   T Forbes Group
 9   Minutes Secretary
10
11   Minutes Approved: ________________




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/07/2025

                                                    7
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ
ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŝƚǇŽĨ,ŽůůĂĚĂǇ
ϴϬϭ͘ϱϮϳ͘ϯϴϵϬ

 &/>η n/a                               COMMISSION MEETING MINUTES
 4                               /^/KEdzW͗
  n/a                                    Administrative/Procedural:

      4 n/a                 Commission shall approve, approve with changes or continue
                                         to a later date the agenda item




   6  4
  City of Holladay Planning Commission   ^/ds//E/dzDW

  4
  n/a

      4
  n/a

 'EZ>W>E/^dZ/d4
  n/a
 /dzKhE/>/^dZ/d͗
  N/A
 Wh>/EKd/d/>^4
  n/a
 4
  Adoption of Meeting Minutes

      4
  UCA§52-4-203, 206
  2.01.080
  13.06.030


   4




                                         EŽƚĞƐ͗

                                         Corrections made according to commission direction on 12-1-2020


 4
  Jonathan Teerlink, City Planner

                                                                                                           ?
 1                                                DRAFT
 2
 3                            MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
 4                             PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
 5
 6                                      Tuesday, October 21, 2025
 7                                              5:30 PM
 8                                       City Council Chambers
 9                                        4580 South 2300 East
10                                           Holladay, Utah
11
12   ATTENDANCE:
13
14   Planning Commission Members:                         City Staff:
15
16   Karianne Prince, Vice-Chair                          Jonathan Teerlink, Community and Economic
17   Paul Cunningham                                             Development Director
18   Angela Gong                                          Brad Christopherson, City Attorney
19   Jill Fonte                                           Carrie Marsh, City Planner
20   Brian Berndt
21   Patrick Tripeny
22
23   CONVENE REGULAR MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
24   In the absence of Chair Dennis Roach, Vice-Chair Karianne Prince called the Regular Meeting to
25   order at 5:30 p.m. All other members of the Planning Commission were present. The Opening
26   Statement was not read aloud because there were no members of the public in attendance.
27
28   CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARING
29   1.  City of Holladay General Plan Update - Public Hearing Continued. Continued
30       Discussion and Presentation by City Staff and Third-Party Consultants, Logan
31       Simpson of a 2025 Update to the Existing Holladay General Plan. 'Holladay
32       Horizons' a 2025 Comprehensive General Plan Update will be Reviewed Over
33       Multiple Meetings, Culminating with a Recommendation by the Commission to the
34       City Council for Final Consideration. Review and Consideration Shall be in
35       Accordance with Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-Part4. File #00-6-04-2.
36
37   Community and Economic Development Director, Jonathan Teerlink, reported that the Planning
38   Commission discussed the General Plan update at the last meeting. At that time, there were
39   comments made about formatting and some of the photographs included in the draft version of the
40   document. The third-party consultants, Logan Simpson, listened to those comments and made
41   some changes. Mr. Teerlink suggested that the Planning Commission review at least Chapters 1,
42   2, and 3 of the draft document during the current Planning Commission Meeting. Mr. Teerlink
43   explained that there has not been a lot of public comment or interaction at this point. While there
44   is public interest in this process, there have not been a lot of formal comments made.
45


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/21/2025

                                                     1
 1   The representative from Logan Simpson, Delaney Sillman, reported that all feedback is being
 2   incorporated into a new draft. Substantive changes will be shown in red to make it easier to see
 3   where amendments have been made. At the last Planning Commission Meeting, there was
 4   feedback received that there should essentially be an introduction to the introduction. That
 5   language should be straightforward and easy to understand. That component has been added to
 6   the beginning. That introductory language states that the General Plan is a blueprint. It is a unified
 7   place where there are visionary items. In Chapter 2, there were some changes made to the way
 8   land uses and place types are called out. The intention is to make it clear that land uses are distinct
 9   from place types. There was some feedback received about the graphic used, so it was amended
10   for clarity. Ms. Sillman noted that several of the images in the document will look different based
11   on previous Commission feedback. She added that a map in the document will be updated.
12
13   Ms. Sillman asked if there is Commissioner feedback about the changes that have been made.
14   Commissioner Patrick Tripeny had a question about commercial land use. It seems the rest would
15   fall under mixed-use, because there is far more commercial than what is shown. If there are only
16   a few businesses shown, he wondered why the commercial category would remain. It seems there
17   has been a decision made that commercial will happen in a mixed-use area. Ms. Sillman pointed
18   out that there are a few additional spots along Highland Drive that are commercial. Those are a
19   little hard to see on the map, so she asked if there is a desire to edit the map to provide more clarity.
20   The second question is whether it is still important to have that distinction. Vice-Chair Prince
21   mentioned the commercial as zones, such as C-1 and C-2. It is not possible to arbitrarily remove
22   a zone, so it seems that this is something that has to be included in the General Plan document.
23   Ms. Sillman confirmed that there are commercial zones that exist in the City, but explained that
24   the commercial land use would only allow for commercial. On the other hand, a mixed-use land
25   use might allow for residential, commercial, or some other mixture of uses.
26
27   There was additional discussion about the commercial land use areas on the map. Commissioner
28   Tripeny clarified that he was not questioning whether commercial exists, as it does and should, but
29   it seems that the City of Holladay has made a decision to move it into the mixed-use category. If
30   there are only a handful of places that are not in that category, it might make sense to roll it all in.
31   He did not understand why half a dozen properties or so are separate. Mr. Teerlink explained that
32   this needs to be looked at in relation to Chapter 6 – A Strong Local Economy. He explained that
33   potential commercial uses could be overrun with residential multi-family mixed-use projects if
34   there are no exclusive commercial areas. Commissioner Gong asked if there should be more areas
35   designated as only commercial. She wanted to know if there is an appropriate balance between
36   the different uses. Mr. Teerlink reported that in the section shown, there are some other small
37   economic centers identified that were not highlighted in previous General Plans.
38
39   Commissioner Berndt asked if the City looks at adjacent property in the other jurisdictions to see
40   if there is consistency with the land uses. For example, if Millcreek did something at 3900 South
41   and 2300 East that intensified the intersection, he wanted to know whether the City of Holladay
42   would take that into account. Mr. Teerlink explained that what is before the Commission is an
43   update of the General Plan. He would consider what was described a substantive change from the
44   previous plan. However, if there is a recommendation to have that studied and looked at, then that
45   can be made.


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/21/2025

                                                        2
 1
 2   Commissioner Gong asked what protections there are within mixed-use for commercial.
 3   Mr. Teerlink explained that it depends on the zone. Using the Holladay Crossroads Zone as an
 4   example, it allows for a wide range of land uses. However, built into the zone is ground-floor
 5   retail and commercial space requirements. The Commissioners reviewed a map in the plan. Vice-
 6   Chair Prince mentioned the Holladay Crossroads area. She noted that there is a lot of commercial
 7   there, but the future land use is Mixed-Use Regional. Mr. Teerlink stated that a Small Area Master
 8   Plan has been approved for that area. It has been studied and allows for a wide range of uses.
 9
10   Commissioner Gong mentioned the Opportunity Categories map on Pages 46 and 47 of the draft
11   document. There is still some uncertainty about what that is trying to communicate, especially as
12   it relates to the Evolve section. Having the categories named (Evolve, Sustain, and Protect) makes
13   the information more confusing. Commissioner Fonte agreed. Ms. Sillman noted that what should
14   likely be maintained in that section, based on Steering Committee feedback and previous
15   community member feedback, is some of the language within the Sustain category. It is possible
16   to remove the three different categories, because it might be too complicated. Commissioner Fonte
17   discussed her reading of the section. The General Plan document indicates that the City will
18   evolve, but this section makes it seem like it will evolve a lot more. There was no clarity provided
19   to indicate why specific areas might evolve more than the rest of the City.
20
21   Ms. Sillman recapped the feedback received from the Planning Commission. It seems there is
22   support to remove the categories mentioned and maintain some of the language around the idea of
23   entitled density. She reported that the Evolve areas shown on the map have Small Area Master
24   Plans associated with them, with a few exceptions. Mr. Teerlink noted that it is important to think
25   about the audience of the General Plan. There are multiple audiences, including potential
26   developers. When developers look at General Plan documents, there is a desire to see opportunity
27   areas. Some of the audience that is reading the General Plan will be interested in the information
28   on that page, but it is possible to summarize the information in a way that addresses all audiences.
29
30   Commissioner Cunningham reported that he reviewed the document and believed the most
31   important part was related to economics. He pointed out that the City is still unduly reliant on
32   property taxes. He believed some of the decisions should be focused on shifting the balance. In
33   order to retain the character of the City of Holladay and the various programs, there needs to be
34   thought put into how all of those services will be paid for. He suggested that other Commissioners
35   read the section about how the City of Holladay is funded. He felt it might make sense to move
36   that chapter forward.
37
38   City Attorney, Brad Christopherson, discussed the sections with Small Area Master Plans. When
39   a City puts resources into creating a plan, it is essentially an invitation for developers to come in
40   and build. That is the reason those are highlighted in the General Plan. It can be made more
41   explicit that these are areas where this is additional focus. Discussions were had about how to
42   make sure the information is clear. Ms. Sillman stated that the land use chapter is an appropriate
43   location. Commissioner Fonte asked if it is possible to link to the Small Area Master Plans, which
44   was confirmed. Commissioner Cunningham noted that one of the maps has labeling issues.
45


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/21/2025

                                                      3
 1   Commissioner Gong asked if a Small Area Master Plan is on the horizon for 4500 South.
 2   Mr. Teerlink denied this and explained that 4500 South is a Utah Department of Transportation
 3   (“UDOT”) road. This makes the creation of a Small Area Master Plan difficult unless UDOT is a
 4   partner in that process, which is not likely. 4500 South is considered a transition zone.
 5
 6   Commissioner Cunningham asked to further discuss the language that mentions allowing duplexes
 7   in all single-family zones. The idea of allowing some duplexes in some single-family zones is
 8   worthy of consideration, but that is not what the language states. He believed there should be
 9   different wording for that goal so it does not create the impression that someone has already
10   decided duplexes will be allowed in all single-family zones. Mr. Teerlink reported that there are
11   internal accessory dwelling unit (“I-ADU”) requirements from the State, so this already exists.
12   The language comes down to compliance with the State. Commissioner Cunningham thought
13   there was better language that could be used, because softer language is used elsewhere.
14
15   Commissioner Fonte suggested that some wording be included that references the Utah Law so it
16   clarifies that this is not something the General Plan is proposing. There could be language that
17   mentions compliance with the State. Mr. Teerlink reported that at the end of this document, there
18   will be an Appendix with a chart that shows House and Senate bills, the requirements of each bill,
19   and where it can be found within the document. Having that information interspersed within the
20   document would be difficult, but an Appendix will provide that additional clarity. Mr. Teerlink
21   stated that when the City of Holladay incorporated, there were areas that the County had already
22   zoned as duplex zones. The idea behind some of the goals is to look at where those existing
23   duplexes are located. However, he confirmed that it is possible to look into softening the included
24   language.
25
26   Mr. Christopherson shared information about cities that are mostly built out, like the City of
27   Holladay. There were a limited number of strategies to choose from for the Moderate-Income
28   Housing Plan. The Legislature had to add options in order to allow cities like Holladay to be
29   compliant, because there were not enough in there for cities that were built out. He does not
30   believe there is a lot of wiggle room with the strategies that Holladay has selected for their
31   Moderate-Income Housing Plan.
32
33   Commissioner Cunningham shared suggested language for duplexes, as previously discussed. He
34   suggested the following: “Allow duplexes in single-family zones, as required by Utah Law.” That
35   is different than what is currently written and it clearly communicates the requirements. There
36   needs to be consistency, because the same language is in a different section within the document.
37
38   Ms. Sillman reported that the policies and actions in the chapter being discussed were taken
39   directly from the Moderate-Income Housing Plan. Mr. Teerlink explained that there is a certain
40   amount of flexibility built into the action items, as there are words used such as consider, initiate,
41   and study. City Planner, Carrie Marsh, noted that the State has specific language requirements.
42
43   Vice-Chair Prince referenced Page 57 of the draft document. She wanted to discuss Figure 4 –
44   Annexation Map. The colors used made it difficult to tell the difference between the different
45   areas. There are several shades of green, and it is difficult to tell which represents each year. There


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/21/2025

                                                       4
 1   are also two yellow sections that wash out all of the details in those sections. She wondered
 2   whether it would be possible to make some improvements to Figure 4, which was confirmed.
 3
 4   Vice-Chair Prince had a problem with the organization of the goals and policies. There are several
 5   chapters that talk about goals and policies, but the numbering restarts each time. This was
 6   mentioned at the last Planning Commission Meeting, but she wanted to make sure it was addressed.
 7   Ms. Sillman clarified that the Commission is not currently looking at an edited version of the draft.
 8   Comments from the previous Planning Commission Meeting have been taken into account. She
 9   explained that items can be labeled for each chapter or the numbers can continue throughout.
10   Commissioners liked the idea of having numbering specific to each chapter, such as Housing
11   Goal 1, and so on. This makes it clear that the goals are different to the previous ones shown.
12
13   Commissioner Gong asked about ways to direct readers across the chapters. She understands there
14   is a Table of Contents, but it might be beneficial if there some sort of connection was made.
15   Ms. Sillman explained that in some other plans, all of the goals, policies, and actions are put into
16   a chart at the end of the document. In this case, the chart would make it possible for the Planning
17   Commission to quickly reference something without needing to look through the entire document.
18   Vice-Chair Prince and Commissioner Fonte expressed support for the addition of this chart.
19
20   Vice-Chair Prince wanted to understand how the order of the chapters was determined.
21   Mr. Teerlink explained that the chapter order from previous versions of the General Plan was used.
22   It can be reorganized as long as all of the required chapters from the State are included. Vice-
23   Chair Prince thought it made sense to think about the two most important components and make
24   sure those are placed appropriately within the document. Mr. Teerlink reported that the City
25   Council will consider all of the recommendations made from the Planning Commission on the
26   draft plan.
27
28   Vice-Chair Prince noted that there are now some members of the public in attendance. As a result,
29   Commissioner Berndt read the Opening Statement for the benefit of those present.
30
31   Vice-Chair Prince opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing
32   remained open.
33
34   Commissioner Fonte further discussed the order of the chapters in the General Plan. There is a
35   reason that the City of Holladay is so special. She believes that if the chapters are reordered and
36   A Strong Local Economy chapter is moved forward, then this will send a message that economic
37   vitality should be prioritized over some of the other items. She believes it is necessary to focus on
38   the things that make Holladay unique. This is a City of quality neighborhoods. In addition, there
39   is a desire to create a walkable and connected community. There are also remarkable recreational
40   spaces and natural spaces. These are things that characterize the City of Holladay. As a result,
41   she suggested that the chapter related to A Strong Local Economy not be moved up in the Table
42   of Contents.
43
44   Commissioner Berndt pointed out that the order of the chapters is not based on priorities. Each
45   chapter is significant in its own way. There was additional discussion about the order of the


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/21/2025

                                                      5
 1   chapters in the General Plan. Ms. Sillman reported that there can be additional clarity provided in
 2   the introduction chapter. She stressed the importance of acknowledging the community
 3   engagement that took place and explaining that there is no prioritization of the action items that
 4   are incorporated. It is possible to leave the chapter order as is but provide additional clarity about
 5   the importance of each of the individual chapters. Commissioner Cunningham thought that was a
 6   good compromise. He feels it is important to have economic information included in the
 7   introduction, because he does not want it to first be mentioned 90 pages into the document.
 8
 9   Commissioner Cunningham read the following language from the document: “Identify specific
10   neighborhoods where sidewalks are not present and are not wanted or needed by the property
11   owners.” He is not sure what the goal of that particular statement is, and noted that safe walkability
12   is important. In other areas, there is a desire to add sidewalks or have wider sidewalks installed to
13   increase safety. This language makes it sound like sidewalks are not being prioritized by the City.
14   Mr. Teerlink reported that when the City first incorporated, there was a 70/30 percentage of
15   residents that did not want sidewalks. However, that shifted over time, and it moved to 60/40. It
16   is now closer to 50/50. There is more of a rural feel when there are no sidewalks in place, but it
17   also makes the City less walkable. The City has tackled the subject of sidewalks by relying on the
18   School District's safe walking routes. Those policies and criteria were used to require installation
19   work. Rather than a walking route, it is possible to focus on areas that are in proximity to a public
20   amenity, such a library, school, downtown area, intersection, and so on. The language read by
21   Commissioner Cunningham came out of the workshops, but it can be modified slightly.
22
23   Commissioners further discussed the sidewalk language. Commissioner Cunningham does not
24   like the idea that a property owner could decide whether there was a sidewalk. There could be
25   language instead that talks about prioritizing walking zones near parks and schools. Commissioner
26   Gong stated that sidewalks should be placed in practical and tactical locations. There are a lot of
27   places where it does not make sense to put in a sidewalk, so she suggested that there be clarity
28   about what there is a desire to achieve. Mr. Teerlink pointed out that the populations in the schools
29   are in flux right now. He does not want something that needs to be modified often. There could
30   be something general to state that anything within a 10-minute walk from a school should have a
31   sidewalk. Commissioner Fonte noted that the location of the parks is not changing, so there could
32   be language referencing the prioritization of sidewalks there.
33
34   Commissioner Cunningham asked about the Constraints Map. He mentioned Holladay Hills and
35   believed the floodplain was removed from the map, so it is no longer a constraint. Mr. Teerlink
36   reported that there was a map revision that was approved, and the majority was removed from the
37   floodplain. Commissioner Gong asked if any of the waterways have floodplains. Ms. Sillman
38   further reviewed the Constraints Map with the Planning Commission. Mr. Teerlink suggested that
39   there be a note added to refer back to the Natural Hazards Map for specific data.
40
41   Commissioner Gong referenced Page 105 of the draft version of the General Plan. She read the
42   following language: “Single-family land uses use 65% of their water outdoors, duplexes use 45%,
43   and triplexes up to apartments use 32%.” She suggested including the overall usage in gallons.
44   This addition would make it possible to understand what the numbers in the paragraph mean.
45   Ms. Sillman noted that a chart can be added to provide a visual representation of the numbers.


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/21/2025

                                                       6
 1
 2   Commissioner Gong next discussed the following sentence: “The City’s projected demand of
 3   7391.5 ac-ft. per year or 2,407 Mgal per year.” She asked about the timeframe for that projection.
 4   Ms. Sillman informed the Commission that there has been some feedback received on this chapter
 5   and some minor changes have been made. Commissioner Gong suggested that the date be added.
 6
 7   Commissioner Gong thought the information about the Residential Water Method and
 8   Employment Water Method was interesting and asked that there be a section in the Appendix
 9   where this is explained. Vice-Chair Prince agreed that it would be better suited in the Appendix,
10   because there was a lot of detail in this particular section. Commissioner Gong mentioned Policy
11   1.1 and noted that the reference to “energy efficiency” did not seem to fit in there, as there was not
12   a lot about energy efficiency in the actual chapter. She asked if that is something that should be
13   expanded throughout the rest of the chapter. Suggestions were shared for Goal 2 and Goal 3.
14   Commissioner Gong believed there should be more specific goals for Goal 3. She pointed out that
15   the City highly values the tree canopy. One comment she has heard from people is that reducing
16   water usage sounds like reducing the number of trees in the community. Since Holladay is a part
17   of Tree City USA, it is possible to educate on how to optimize trees without sprinkling or irrigating.
18
19   Vice-Chair Prince asked if there are specific areas Mr. Teerlink would like the Commission to
20   discuss during the remainder of the meeting. Mr. Teerlink denied this. He reported that there is a
21   Special Planning Commission Meeting scheduled next week, on October 28, 2025. The following
22   Planning Commission Meeting will take place on November 18, 2025. Commissioner
23   Cunningham asked if there will be an updated version of the General Plan document provided for
24   those meetings. Ms. Sillman reported that the Commission comments have been incorporated into
25   another version of the document. All of the additional comments will need to be added as well.
26
27   Mr. Teerlink reported that the Constraints Map shows some natural hazard situations. The State
28   is requiring all cities to adopt Urban Wildland Interface mapping. The City Council will have a
29   discussion about that later in the week and will talk about what the overlay map will look like. He
30   explained that it will be an overlay zone that implements Urban Wildland Interface Building Code.
31   There is a specific area along Wasatch Boulevard that will be within that Urban Wildland Interface
32   Zone. Once the City Council establishes what those boundaries are, this will be shared with Logan
33   Simpson, and that will be on the Constraints Map. Vice-Chair Prince asked if that is different than
34   the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (“FCOZ”). Mr. Teerlink confirmed that it is different.
35
36   Vice-Chair Prince asked Staff to review meeting dates with the Planning Commission.
37   Mr. Teerlink reported that there will be a Planning Commission Meeting on October 28, 2025,
38   November 18, 2025, December 2, 2025, and December 16, 2025. Vice-Chair Prince noted that in
39   the past, the Planning Commission has reviewed the tentative meeting schedule for the next year
40   to review. Mr. Teerlink confirmed that this will be included on a future meeting agenda.
41
42   Commissioner Fonte asked where the Planning Commission Meetings will be held when the
43   building shuts down. Mr. Teerlink was not certain. There are a couple of locations that the City
44   Council and City Manager are contemplating but it comes down to the cost associated with the
45   location. He explained that moving a City Hall to a different location is difficult when there is a


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/21/2025

                                                       7
 1   desire to have office space. Some of the spaces that were toured do not meet the needs of the City.
 2   There are a few locations the Council is still considering, but nothing has been finalized. Vice-
 3   Chair Prince asked about the timeline. Mr. Teerlink stated that the move will be at the beginning
 4   of April. For 18 months, meetings will be in another location while this building is retrofitted.
 5
 6   ADJOURN
 7   Commissioner Berndt moved to ADJOURN. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
 8   of the Commission.
 9
10   The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 7:19 p.m.




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/21/2025

                                                     8
1    I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
2    of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held on Tuesday, October 21, 2025.
3
4
5

6    Teri Forbes
 7   Teri Forbes
 8   T Forbes Group
 9   Minutes Secretary
10
11   Minutes Approved: ________________




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/21/2025

                                                    9
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ
ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŝƚǇŽĨ,ŽůůĂĚĂǇ
ϴϬϭ͘ϱϮϳ͘ϯϴϵϬ

 &/>η n/a                               COMMISSION MEETING MINUTES
 4                               /^/KEdzW͗
  n/a                                    Administrative/Procedural:

      4 n/a                 Commission shall approve, approve with changes or continue
                                         to a later date the agenda item




   6  4
  City of Holladay Planning Commission   ^/ds//E/dzDW

  4
  n/a

      4
  n/a

 'EZ>W>E/^dZ/d4
  n/a
 /dzKhE/>/^dZ/d͗
  N/A
 Wh>/EKd/d/>^4
  n/a
 4
  Adoption of Meeting Minutes

      4
  UCA§52-4-203, 206
  2.01.080
  13.06.030


   4




                                         EŽƚĞƐ͗

                                         Corrections made according to commission direction on 12-1-2020


 4
  Jonathan Teerlink, City Planner

                                                                                                           ?
 1                                                DRAFT
 2
 3                            MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
 4                             PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
 5
 6                                      Tuesday, October 28, 2025
 7                                              6:00 PM
 8                                       City Council Chambers
 9                                        4580 South 2300 East
10                                           Holladay, Utah
11
12   ATTENDANCE:
13
14   Planning Commission Members:                         City Staff:
15
16   Dennis Roach, Chair                                  Jonathan Teerlink, Community and Economic
17   Patrick Tripeny                                             Development Director
18   Angela Gong                                          Brad Christopherson, City Attorney
19   Jill Fonte                                           Carrie Marsh, City Planner
20   Paul Cunningham
21   Brian Berndt
22
23   WORK SESSION
24   Chair Dennis Roach called the Work Session to order at 5:30 p.m. He noted that all
25   Commissioners are present with the exception of Commissioner Karianne Prince. There are three
26   items on the Regular Meeting agenda, including a Public Hearing – Continued on the Holladay
27   General Plan Update and two Public Hearings on Text Amendments. Chair Roach noted that he
28   was not at the last Planning Commission Meeting and missed some of the General Plan discussion.
29   He asked if the hearing needs to be closed before a vote is taken. Community and Economic
30   Development Director, Jonathan Teerlink, confirmed this and noted that there is a public comment
31   included in the Meeting Materials Packet. He pointed out that there might be individuals present
32   at the Planning Commission Meeting for the Wildland Urban Interface item on the Regular
33   Meeting agenda. It might make sense for the Planning Commission to discuss that first.
34
35   Chair Roach noted that if there are members of the public present during the Regular Meeting, the
36   Wildland Urban Interface Overlay Zone and Building Code Review item will be heard first. He
37   asked if there will need to be a motion made to reorder the agenda. Mr. Teerlink explained that
38   all of the items have been noticed for 6:00 p.m. so there does not necessarily need to be a motion.
39
40   Chair Roach asked for a summary of the General Plan discussions from the last meeting.
41   Commissioner Brian Berndt explained that there were not a lot of additional changes
42   recommended, but he appreciated the conversation that was had. He supports strong economic
43   development. Commissioner Paul Cunningham reported that at the last meeting, he made a
44   comment about economics. He felt that should be further emphasized by either moving the
45   relevant chapter forward or adding language to the introduction. It was noted that at the last


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                     1
 1   Planning Commission Meeting, there was also a discussion about the duplex language.
 2   Commissioner Jill Fonte noted that the items discussed at the last meeting were addressed in the
 3   next iteration of the document. The duplex language was adjusted based on the provided feedback.
 4
 5   Chair Roach reported that the second item on the Regular Meeting agenda is a Public Hearing for
 6   a Text Amendment. It is related to the Regional Mixed-Use (“R/MU”) Zone and the Site
 7   Development Master Plan (“SDMP”). Mr. Teerlink reported that in 2007, one of the elements of
 8   this project that was left out was signage. It was not a priority at that time. However, the applicant
 9   has proposed an appendix to the SDMP, which will refine the signage massing and location.
10
11   The design is not necessarily something the Commission needs to consider, but the massing,
12   height, setbacks, and landscaping elements should be discussed. In 2000, pole signs were
13   eliminated from the City. Over the years, those have slowly been removed from right-of-ways.
14   As tenants change over, there must be conversion to a monument sign. There is only one zone in
15   the City currently that allows a tall development sign, which is the Office Research Development
16   (“ORD”) Zone. The sign types proposed in this case are monument style signs, but the proposed
17   height measures in at 20 feet maximum. The Commission can discuss whether the 57 acres of the
18   Royal Holladay Hills development is significant enough to warrant their own signage package.
19
20   Chair Roach mentioned the renderings included in the Meeting Materials Packet. It looked like
21   the sign was close to the sidewalk with a foot of vegetation in front. He asked if that is
22   approximately where the location would be. Mr. Teerlink reported that all of the clear view codes
23   would still apply. It would need to be set back 40 feet from the clear view triangle, but the locations
24   included in the Meeting Materials Packet are the approximate locations that have been proposed.
25
26   Commissioner Cunningham pointed out that there is already a sign on the property. He is
27   frustrated that this request is before the Commission when something has already been installed.
28   Mr. Teerlink noted that the applicant can address that. Discussions were had about temporary
29   signs. Mr. Teerlink reported that in the City Code, temporary sign is defined but what has been
30   built does not fit that definition. A temporary sign is usually a banner to announce an opening date
31   or sale and it can be there for 30 days. He reiterated that there is a definition for this kind of sign.
32
33   Commissioner Cunningham did not believe there was a Staff recommendation included in the
34   Meeting Materials Packet. Mr. Teerlink reported that there is a suggested motion included. He
35   pointed out that there have not been findings included in the motion language, because the Planning
36   Commission needs to determine whether there is support for the proposed heights. Commissioner
37   Cunningham asked what the tallest sign is at Millrock. Mr. Teerlink believed it was 15 to 18 feet.
38
39   Commissioner Cunningham understands the advantage of having signs that are above pedestrians
40   and traffic so the signs are more visible, but he is not certain that 20 feet is the appropriate number.
41   It was noted that this project should not necessarily be identified by signs, but landscaping and
42   building design. Chair Roach asked if a setback would be appropriate to allow for an increase in
43   height. Mr. Teerlink confirmed that those types of elements can be implemented. There is no
44   recommendation included in the Staff Report, because he has not had these conversations with the
45   Planning Commission before. He shared additional information about the SDMP. There was


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                        2
 1   discussion about the sign material. Mr. Teerlink noted that the applicant will be at the Regular
 2   Meeting and can share information about the material, but he believes it is painted aluminum.
 3
 4   The third item on the Regular Meeting agenda is a Public Hearing for a Text Amendment to Title
 5   13.70. It relates to the Wildland Urban Interface Overlay Zone and Building Code. Chair Roach
 6   reminded those present that this item might be discussed ahead of the other items during the
 7   Regular Meeting. Mr. Teerlink reported that the Legislature wants to ensure that every
 8   municipality has a Wildland Urban Interface boundary in place. The State was tasked with looking
 9   at Structure Exposure Scores, so a scoring system has been established. Municipalities have been
10   asked to take those scores and create their own boundary. Staff has created a boundary that relates
11   to structure scores of five and above, which is recommended by Unified Fire Authority (“UFA”).
12
13   Mr. Teerlink reported that Staff has created two different boundaries. One is shown in the Meeting
14   Materials Packet in a darker blue and one is shown in a lighter blue. Staff has notified all property
15   owners within those two boundaries that these are the contemplated areas for the Wildland Urban
16   Interface Overlay Zone. Since that time, there has been a meeting with the City Council and
17   representatives from UFA to receive feedback on the light blue area shown. Mr. Teerlink clarified
18   that the light blue area is not within the Structure Exposure Score of five and above. However, the
19   light blue area has historically been an area of concern for emergency services and fire crews.
20
21   Last week, the City Council was asked about their comfort including the light blue areas in what
22   moves forward. The City Council acknowledged that the light blue areas are a concern and
23   expressed a desire to study those in more detail. There was a request made that the dark blue area
24   be considered by the Planning Commission. Mr. Teerlink explained that at this time, there is City
25   Council support to consider properties within the dark blue area rather than the light blue. During
26   the Regular Meeting, there might be individuals present from the dark blue and light blue areas.
27   There will be a representative from UFA at the Regular Meeting to share additional information.
28
29   Mr. Teerlink reported that there will be a fee associated with homes that have higher Structure
30   Exposure Score levels. He is not sure what level that will be, but the Utah Division of Fire,
31   Forestry, and State Lands (“FFSL”) will look into this. Mr. Teerlink explained that properties
32   within the dark blue area will not necessarily be assessed a fee unless the property is within the
33   higher scale that is determined. For new construction, it will mean another type of fire code that
34   must be adhered to. This includes definitions and criteria for defensible space. He stated that
35   defensible space is the distance between the structure and whatever vegetation there is between a
36   home and the neighboring home. That is in direct conflict with the canopy sustainability
37   ordinance.
38
39   Commissioner Tripeny asked if the Planning Commission will be considering the light blue area.
40   Mr. Teerlink clarified that the City Council has requested that the dark blue area be considered at
41   this time. That is the overlay there is comfort applying at this time, because that is the overlay that
42   directly aligns with the Structure Exposure Score of five and above. The light blue is not within
43   the Structure Exposure Score of five and above, so there is a desire to study that separately and
44   potentially look at that area in the future. Commissioner Fonte asked if this relates to new
45   construction. Mr. Teerlink stated that it has to do with new construction and additions.


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                       3
 1
 2   There are municipalities within the County and State who do not have Wildland Urban Interface
 3   areas, because there is no interaction with forest boundaries. As a result, there will be cities that
 4   do not adopt an overlay zone. Mr. Teerlink noted that if the overlay zone is not adopted and there
 5   is a wildland fire, the municipality will not be eligible to receive emergency funds from the State.
 6
 7   Commissioner Gong wanted to better understand what the role of the Planning Commission is for
 8   this item. Mr. Teerlink reported that the Commission is being asked to look at the boundary. There
 9   has been work done with Millcreek, Cottonwood Heights, and Sandy while generating the maps.
10   The Commission is being asked to look at the methodology used for the boundaries. He explained
11   that this agenda item also impacts the Building Code, which is Title 13. If an overlay zone impacts
12   structures and properties, it is the responsibility of the Planning Commission to forward a
13   recommendation to the City Council. Commissioner Fonte asked when the map will be more
14   clearly defined by the State. Mr. Teerlink explained that it will not be.
15
16   Chair Roach expressed concerns about the conflicts with the tree ordinance. He asked if that needs
17   to be figured out before the Text Amendment can be approved. Mr. Teerlink reported that it will
18   need to be looked at in retrospect. City Attorney, Brad Christopherson, explained that all of this
19   is the State reaction to wildfires that occurred in California. Chair Roach thanked him for the
20   clarification. It was noted that the Commission will move directly into the Regular Meeting.
21
22   CONVENE REGULAR MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
23   Chair Roach called the Regular Meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. He reported that there are three
24   items on the agenda. All members of the Commission are present with the exception of
25   Commissioner Prince. The Opening Statement was read aloud by Commissioner Tripeny.
26
27   During the Work Session, there was a discussion about reordering the agenda due to members of
28   the public who are present for the third item on the Regular Meeting agenda. As a result, it was
29   determined that the Text Amendment for Title 13.70 will be considered by the Commission first.
30
31   PUBLIC HEARING – CONTINUED
32   1.   City of Holladay General Plan Update – “Holladay Horizons.” Continued Discussion
33        and Presentation by City Staff and Third-Party Consultants, Logan Simpson, of a
34        2025 Update to the Existing Holladay General Plan. Recommendation(s) on a Final
35        Draft will be Forwarded to the City Council for Final Consideration. In Accordance
36        with Utah Code §10-9a-Part 4. File #00-6-04-2.
37
38   Chair Roach noted that during the previous meeting, there were comments made about duplexes
39   and economic development. He asked for updates about the General Plan from Staff. Mr. Teerlink
40   reported that since the last Planning Commission Meeting, there was an opportunity to work with
41   Logan Simpson on the General Plan document. The feedback from the Planning Commission was
42   incorporated into the document and can be seen in the redline version sent out to Commissioners.
43
44   Mr. Teerlink noted that there are a few outstanding items that were not incorporated into the latest
45   version of the draft. His recommendation would be that the motion language mention the inclusion


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                      4
 1   of those changes. It was explained that some of the changes to the maps have not been completed.
 2   There are also changes to the water element that need to be made. The majority of the proposed
 3   changes have been made to that section, but some additional review is needed. Mr. Teerlink added
 4   that the public hearing is still open. Staff was waiting to see if additional comments would be
 5   submitted. One email comment was received and is included in the Meeting Materials Packet.
 6
 7   Commissioner Cunningham asked about the email comment that was received. Mr. Teerlink
 8   explained that there can be a discussion about the contents of the email during the Planning
 9   Commission Meeting. There was a desire to understand the difference between the Future Land
10   Use District Map and the Zone Map. It was clarified that there is no zoning being changed with
11   the General Plan update. That has been a consistent concern from residents, especially during one
12   on one discussions. Since this is an update, there are not boundaries being changed to the Land
13   Use Districts. There were changes made to the descriptions and representations within the
14   document. Chair Roach asked if the text in red indicates the changes that have been made, which
15   was confirmed. There is strikethrough text where pieces have been removed and there is red text
16   to indicate additions. The additions are based on the feedback that has been received.
17
18   The representative from Logan Simpson, Delaney Sillman, reviewed the draft version of the
19   General Plan with the Commission. She reported that there were minor changes made where
20   sentences were restructured, but she wanted to highlight some of the more significant changes.
21   Ms. Sillman reported that the Appendix has been added, which includes the following:
22
23      •   Appendix A: Required General Plan Element Matrix;
24      •   Appendix B: Glossary of Terms;
25      •   Appendix C: Engagement Summary;
26      •   Appendix D: Implementation Summary Table;
27      •   Appendix E: Small Area Plans; and
28      •   Appendix F: Moderate-Income Housing Plan.
29
30   The introduction section was reviewed. Ms. Sillman explained that there was additional clarity
31   provided as well as some new graphics. The Future Land Use chapter was discussed. It was noted
32   that there were some significant changes made to this chapter. The Opportunity Categories were
33   removed and there are now Areas of Opportunity. She explained that the information covers the
34   Small Area Master Plans as well as high traffic corridors. In the Future Land Use versus Zoning
35   section, there was text added to clarify the relationship between the two. Some edits were also
36   made to the graphic. The Areas of Opportunity language was further reviewed. Ms. Sillman
37   explained that these are places the City has already designated as having the potential to change.
38   There was a request made to include images of what these areas look like, so that was done.
39
40   Commissioner Gong asked if there will be a Small Area Master Plan for Murray Holladay Road
41   between Holladay Village and Holladay Hills. Mr. Teerlink explained that it was started at one
42   point, but essentially tabled by the City Council. With this document as guidance, it will be
43   possible to bring something back for consideration. Ms. Sillman continued to review the General
44   Plan document and pointed out the different amendments made. There were specific questions
45   about the policies and some adjustments were made. For example, DC Policy 1.1 now states:

     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                     5
 1   “Prioritize compatible development patterns in existing stable residential areas, while
 2   acknowledging trade-offs when changes occur.” There is a desire to allow for some flexibility.
 3
 4   Commissioner Cunningham believed the word “stable” indicates that nothing will change. He
 5   noted that the word was removed in other portions of the General Plan, but remained in this case.
 6   He asked if it made sense to remove “stable” from the DC Policy 1.1 language. Ms. Sillman
 7   reported that there is a list of amendments to be made and the removal of the word “stable” can be
 8   added to that list. The list is something that Commissioners can review ahead of a
 9   recommendation. Additional discussions were had about the drafted DC Policy 1.1 language. Ms.
10   Sillman reiterated that it is possible to make changes to the language, if desired by the Commission.
11   Commissioner Fonte believed it would make more sense if the word “stable” was removed.
12
13   Ms. Sillman reported that some changes have been made to the graphics to make the maps easier
14   to read. There was a lot of previous discussion about the housing section. One of the changes
15   made there was to remove some of the data. However, it will remain in the Moderate-Income
16   Housing Plan. Ms. Sillman reviewed a suggested change with the Commission. She explained
17   that the policies shown are related to the strategies that have been identified in the Moderate-
18   Income Housing Plan. The goals developed as part of the General Plan process are not in the
19   Moderate-Income Housing Plan, but the strategies and actions are. In order to avoid having these
20   listed in multiple places, the suggestion is to remove the action items that reference pieces of the
21   Moderate-Income Housing Plan and instead reference the document within the General Plan.
22   Mr. Teerlink reported that Ann Frances Garcia is the Economic Development and Housing
23   Manager. It is her responsibility to oversee that component of the General Plan. Mr. Teerlink
24   reminded the Commission that the Moderate-Income Housing Plan is included in the Appendix of
25   the document.
26
27   There was a change made to the Pedestrian Network Map. Ms. Sillman reported that the Schools
28   and Activity Centers were highlighted. She noted that a State requirement is to identify project
29   cost estimates for multimodal transportation improvements. The City diligently worked with the
30   Engineering Department to identify some specific locations. Commissioner Gong pointed out that
31   this feels different than the rest of the General Plan document, because it is not timeless.
32   Ms. Sillman explained that a lot of other communities have pulled back on the level of detail. This
33   section is relatively detailed, but the location has to be. The funding sources and cost estimates
34   are detailed as well, which she believes is beneficial. There was a typo noted for correction.
35
36   Ms. Sillman reported that a previously discussed change was made to the sidewalk language. She
37   explained that there was language incorporated related to feasibility. Some other relatively minor
38   changes were made. She noted that a graphic will be updated to reflect the Small Area Master
39   Plan map. The last chapter of the document has more significant changes to the goals and policies.
40   In addition, there were specifics requested from the State in their review of the water element.
41   That includes additional information about irrigation companies. The share of the City of Holladay
42   water budget is also shown in a graphic. She highlighted the goals and policies that have changed
43   to address Commissioner comments. Commissioner Gong asked about the graphic on Page 113.
44   Ms. Sillman explained that it shows what the different water suppliers are able to supply to the



     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                      6
 1   City. It begins at 2020 and concludes at 2065, but more clarity can be provided to communicate
 2   that.
 3
 4   Ms. Sillman explained that there are still a few minor edits that need to be made to the document
 5   to address spacing and typos. There is a list that outlines the changes that still need to be made.
 6   Chair Roach asked if the Planning Commission feels a need to review the General Plan document
 7   after this meeting, which was denied. He noted that there has been a long review process.
 8
 9   Chair Roach opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.
10
11   Chair Roach moved that the City of Holladay Planning Commission forward to the City Council
12   all prepared recommended edits to the Draft General Plan Update, “Holladay Horizons,” based
13   upon the following findings:
14
15          1.      The update maintains statutory compliance with General Plan adoption
16                  processes.
17
18          2.      Via a City initiated “Request For Proposal” process, the City of Holladay has
19                  interviewed and selected a consultant to guide the City on research, public
20                  outreach, drafting, and adoption of a General Plan update.
21
22          3.      Logan Simpson, the chosen consultant, is a research-driven firm that has
23                  provided transparent data presentation and public engagement to provide the City
24                  with an update which maintains past City visions and goals while providing
25                  guidance on aligning future goals with statutory compliance and resident values.
26
27          4.      Public comment period has been held open from September 30th to receive public
28                  input.
29
30          5.      As drafted, the proposed update and accompanying online portal have been
31                  found to provide clear and approachable tools to assist residents, business
32                  owners, development community, and City Staff in understanding the City of
33                  Holladay’s vision for its future.
34
35   Commissioner Berndt seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Cunningham-Yes;
36   Commissioner Tripeny-Yes; Commissioner Fonte-Yes; Commissioner Gong-Yes;
37   Commissioner Berndt-Yes; Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.
38




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                     7
 1   PUBLIC HEARING
 2   2.      Text Amendment – Regional Mixed-Use (R/MU) Zone, Site Development Master Plan
 3           (SDMP 2007). Review and Recommendation to City Council on Proposed Text
 4           Amendment to the Site Development Master Plan for the Royal Holladay Hills
 5           Redevelopment Area (aka Cottonwood Mall Redevelopment Area, 2007) within the
 6           Regional Mixed-Use Zone (R/M-U). The Proposal, Brought by the Applicant, Steve
 7           Petersen, will Provide New Signage Criteria for the Development Area as an
 8           Appendix to the SDMP. Item reviewed as a Legislative Action in accordance with
 9           Holladay Ordinance §13.07.030 & §13.65.080. (#07-7-01-2)
10   Mr. Teerlink presented the Staff Report and explained that this is a Text Amendment application
11   related to the Royal Holladay Hills development. Since 2007, this site has had various
12   development criteria applied to it, but the signage was something that was intended to be addressed
13   at a later date. The applicant is now requesting review of new signage standards that would be
14   addressed as an Appendix to the SDMP. When the SDMP was originally approved, there was a
15   mention that this would be addressed at a later date. Staff has received an application to create
16   some signage standards, specifically for the entrance and interior signs. Various heights and
17   massing have been proposed. Mr. Teerlink reminded Commissioners that pole signs are something
18   the City Council wanted to remove generally, so pole signs have slowly been removed in the City.
19
20   The types of signs that are being proposed are not necessarily pole signs, but are similar to a
21   monument sign with higher heights and massing. Mr. Teerlink reported that all of the standards
22   that are being reviewed will be applicable only to the Regional Mixed-Use (“R/MU”) Zone, as
23   enforced by the SDMP. The applicant is present at the meeting to discuss the proposal.
24
25   The applicant representative, Kris Longson, introduced himself to the Commission. He shared
26   details about the Exhibit information. It includes the locations where the main signs and directional
27   signs will be located. In the development agreement with the City, electronic billboards were
28   prohibited, so that restriction is in place. There is a slight disagreement between the attorneys
29   about the language on Page 17 as far as Temporary Sign Signage Criteria. For the project
30   development signs, it states that it can be up to 800 square feet, which is not a temporary sign. The
31   attorney interpretation is that this was actually an intended limit for the project signs.
32
33   The reason this is coming to the Planning Commission now is because of discussions with tenants.
34   One of the tenants who will open on Friday has demanded signage in order to come here. It is a
35   criteria in the lease, so it is possible for the tenant to back out of the lease if there is not signage
36   available. Mr. Longson reported that the signs have a height limitation of 20 feet. This area is 57
37   acres in an SDMP and there is different zoning than anywhere else in the City. When looking at
38   other properties of a similar size, the signs are larger than 10x30 billboards in a lot of cases.
39   Mr. Longson reported that there has been work with tenants to explain the differences in the City
40   of Holladay. There has also been work done with a signage and design company. The Trader
41   Joe’s sign is required under the lease. It is 20 feet tall and has a signage base of less than 200
42   square feet.
43
44   Mr. Longson stated that the designs tie in with the buildings that have already been developed. He
45   offered to answer Commissioner questions. Commissioner Berndt asked about the arrival signs.


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                        8
 1   Mr. Longson reported that there are only two arrival signs, one on the corner of Murray Holladay
 2   Road and Highland Drive and the other down at Rodeo Walk Drive and Highland Drive. Those
 3   arrival signs will not have tenant signage on them. He explained that this will need to be brought
 4   back to the Commission, because the designs for those have not been completed. Additional
 5   information was shared about the signage locations and the design of the multi-tenant sign.
 6
 7   Chair Roach pointed out the arrival signage on the Site Signage Standards document. There is an
 8   illustration in the Meeting Materials Packet that shows those on the corner. Mr. Longson clarified
 9   that there is not a design for the arrival sign at this point. That will come back to the Planning
10   Commission once the design has been completed. Chair Roach asked if there is anything in the
11   Text Amendment currently before the Planning Commission related to the arrival signs. It was
12   clarified that there is nothing in the current application that is related to the arrival signs.
13
14   Commissioner Cunningham does not like the fact that there is not a full plan in place. He wanted
15   to know more about the height of the arrival signs. Mr. Longson does not see those being more
16   than 10 feet. Those are the only two signs missing from this application and those will be brought
17   to the Commission for consideration in the future. Commissioner Cunningham is uncomfortable
18   approving something that does not include all of the signs. Mr. Longson understood that but
19   reiterated that it is only arrival signs that are missing and those are not related to tenant signage.
20
21   Commissioner Fonte believed the proposal is to have six 20 foot signs on this property.
22   Mr. Longson reported that the proposal is to have three 20 foot signs and then some smaller 14-
23   foot signs. He clarified that the smaller signs will not be out on the street, but will be set back
24   within the property. Chair Roach asked about the setbacks on the 20 foot signs. Mr. Longson
25   reported that on Murray Holladay Road, there are setbacks from the power lines. He believes there
26   needs to be a clearance of 20 feet from those power lines. The temporary Trader Joe’s sign that is
27   up illustrates the setback. It cannot be closer to the road than that due to the overhead lines there.
28   On Highland Drive, the proposal is to have it outside of the clear view triangle for the intersection.
29
30   Commissioner Cunningham asked about the signs that are proposed at the back of the property.
31   Mr. Longson clarified that those are small directional signs inside the property. Mr. Teerlink
32   explained that when it comes to signage, the location and size can be considered, but the content
33   cannot be controlled that much. Most sign related ordinances deal with the size and location.
34
35   Chair Roach likes the style of the directional signs that have been shown in the Meeting Materials
36   Packet. He doesn’t mind the monument signs either, but his concern has to do with the height.
37   Discussions were had about how visible the signs would be. Mr. Longson explained that there is
38   a need to be competitive in order to bring in tenants. Commissioner Fonte stated that everything
39   in Holladay Hills has been tastefully done so far. She is concerned about what has been proposed,
40   because three 20 foot signs feels out of character for the community. It is not in keeping with the
41   rest of the neighborhood. Mr. Longson reported that an attempt was made to ensure that it matched
42   the character of the architecture and materials. Commissioner Fonte reiterated her concerns.
43
44   Chair Roach opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.
45


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                       9
 1   Chair Roach likes the sign design but feels it was a disservice to show the location with a 2D
 2   image, as it appears to be right against the Murray Holladay Road and Highland Drive intersection.
 3   However, it was clarified that there is a setback from Murray Holladay Road. The proposal makes
 4   sense when he understands the dimensions, but the submitted materials are unclear.
 5
 6   Commissioner Gong noted that the Holladay Village took care to make the signage feel pedestrian
 7   scale, because that was the goal for that area. That is not necessarily the goal for this area, as there
 8   is an understanding that this will be a regional hub and people will drive there. That being said,
 9   she was concerned that the height will make it easier for people to read the sign while driving
10   quickly. Commissioner Gong stated that the setbacks make sense and she appreciates the clarity
11   provided.
12
13   Commissioner Tripeny understands the concerns about 20-foot signs, but it is a large development
14   and he does not believe 20-foot signs will look out of place. Chair Roach likes the applicant design
15   and now that setbacks have been clarified, he feels more comfortable with what has been proposed.
16
17   Mr. Teerlink explained that the recommendation to the City Council will need to include sections
18   of the sign ordinance that address clear view. Chair Roach confirmed that clear view has to be a
19   priority for safety. Discussions were had about elevations, setbacks, and clear view. Chair Roach
20   stated that he feels good about the clear view aspect of the proposal. Commissioner Gong asked
21   for additional information about the size of the signs on Murray Holladay Road. She noted that it
22   might be possible to have some sort of transition, with one sign at 20 feet and another slightly
23   smaller so it scales down. The Commission discussed appropriate language for a motion.
24
25   Commissioner Berndt moved to Forward a Recommendation to the City Council to APPROVE
26   an application by Steve Petersen to amend Page 17 and include Appendix Sign Criteria of the
27   Site Development Master Plan (2007) by providing anticipated sign criteria, as is expected and
28   noted on Page 17 of the SDMP, including criteria for the clear view triangle and noting that the
29   setbacks for each sign will be set back a minimum of 1 foot for every 1 foot of height.
30   Commissioner Gong seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Berndt-Yes;
31   Commissioner Gong-Yes; Commissioner Fonte-Yes; Commissioner Tripeny-Yes;
32   Commissioner Cunningham-Yes; Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.
33
34   3.      Text Amendment – Title 13.70; Wildland Urban Interface Overlay Zone and Building
35           Code. Review and Recommendation to City Council on Creation of Title 13.70, of the
36           Holladay City Code, Land Use and Development Regulations, as they Relate to
37           Statute Obligations, as set forth by State of Utah Legislation, HB 48, Creating a
38           Wildland Urban Interface (WUI) Boundary Zone and Adopting the 2006 Utah WUI
39           Building Code. Item reviewed as a Legislative Action, According to Procedures set forth
40           in Holladay Ordinance §13.07. (#25-4-11)
41   Mr. Teerlink presented the Staff Report and explained that this is a request based on statutory
42   compliance with House Bill (“H.B.”) 48. He noted that there was some discussion about this item
43   during the Work Session. This relates to a Wildland Urban Interface Overlay Zone in the City that
44   would require the 2006 Wildland Urban Interface Building Code. There would be some building
45   construction requirements that would be applied to new construction. This is a boundary overlay


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                       10
 1   zone that will be applied. This allows compliant municipalities to collect emergency funds if there
 2   is a wildland fire. Mr. Teerlink shared information about the Structure Exposure Score.
 3
 4   UFA Captain Dan Brown introduced himself to those present. He explained that the Structure
 5   Exposure Score is a score that the State has determined. It takes into account slope, ember travel,
 6   and fuel load. It rates the risk to the area if there was a wildfire. The State has recommended a
 7   Structure Exposure Score of five and above be included on the Wildland Urban Interface map.
 8
 9   Commissioner Berndt wanted to understand how someone could build in these areas. Captain
10   Brown reported that new construction will need to follow the code. Existing structures will need
11   to follow the defensible space portion of the code. Commissioner Berndt asked if the fire code
12   will be part of the building code in this case, which was confirmed. Chair Roach believed the
13   scoring system is based on location on the map and not on materials and existing vegetation.
14
15   Commissioner Fonte noted that there was a reference made to existing structures. She asked if the
16   State will assess each structure, even existing structures, and assign a Structure Exposure Score.
17   Captain Brown clarified that there will be a fee that is assessed for certain homes, but the details
18   of that are still unclear. This will not be handled at a City level. What the Planning Commission
19   is considering now has to do with the Wildland Urban Interface Overlay Zone and Building Code.
20
21   Mr. Teerlink reported that the responsibility of the City is to create a boundary based on the
22   Structure Exposure Scores. He explained that there were two zones proposed: a dark blue area
23   and light blue area. There were 800 notices sent out, which included properties in both of these
24   areas. Mr. Teerlink stated that there was a discussion with the City Council about the areas. The
25   light blue area is not within the Structure Exposure Score of five and above, but it has historically
26   been an area of concern to the City because of accessibility and hydrant water flow. Those areas
27   were included as part of a potential zone, but the City Council clarified that the light blue area is
28   not the priority at this time. However, it is an area that will be looked into further in the future.
29   The City Council has asked the Planning Commission to consider the dark blue boundary shown.
30
31   Mr. Teerlink explained that the Planning Commission is being asked to look at the boundaries and
32   the methodology that has been proposed. A recommendation to the City Council based on public
33   comments and a discussion on possible refinement of the boundary is within the purview of the
34   Commission. Mr. Teerlink explained that the focus is on the Structure Exposure Score and the
35   boundary that has been created. Mr. Christopherson reported that the State mandated that this be
36   passed before the end of the year, because the fee is supposed to be assessed in January.
37   Mr. Teerlink confirmed that municipalities have a requirement to adopt a boundary by January 1,
38   2026. Chair Roach noted that if this item was continued, it would still be possible to meet the
39   deadline.
40
41   Commissioner Gong asked about the boundary shown on the map. Mr. Teerlink explained that
42   there was a State assessment, but then the City is responsible for refining the area. The State
43   boundary created does not follow streets or property lines, so some adjustments were made. He
44   shared information about properties that have better access and conditions. Chair Roach wanted
45   to know if a residential street is considered enough of a fire break that there would be justification


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                      11
 1   for a score difference. Captain Brown explained that it depends on the situation. He shared
 2   additional information about the map provided by the State and mentioned the poor resolution.
 3
 4   Commissioner Fonte pointed out the Millrock area and stated that it appears to have a Structure
 5   Exposure Score of three. She asked if it is because of the nature of the structures and the limited
 6   vegetation there. Mr. Teerlink confirmed this and mentioned the separation of buildings.
 7
 8   Commissioner Cunningham reported that there are 435 houses in the dark blue area, which is what
 9   the Planning Commission is considering at the current meeting. He asked if there is anything in
10   the proposed ordinance that would allow an individual homeowner to submit an appeal based on
11   a unique circumstance. He wanted to know if an appeal process is possible, which could
12   potentially remove a property from the boundary and fee. Mr. Teerlink is not certain about the
13   fee, because there is still uncertainty about that process. At this time, the State judgement of a
14   Structure Exposure Score of five and above is the best information available. However, he believes
15   there would be an application process that could potentially remove a property from the boundary.
16
17   Chair Roach noted that the fee is not part of this Text Amendment and clarified that the City is not
18   implementing a fee. Mr. Teerlink confirmed that the City has no control over the fee. He wished
19   there was more information available from the State, but those parameters are still being discussed.
20
21   Chair Roach opened the public hearing.
22
23   Linda Leckman gave her address as 6447 Canyon Crest Drive and noted that it is in the Canyon
24   Cove Subdivision. She explained that Canyon Cove is shown in dark blue. The biggest problem
25   right now is a lack of information. She understands that the City has to create a map, but there is
26   uncertainty about what will happen once the State Law goes into effect. She expressed a desire
27   for more information. Ms. Leckman wanted to better understand defensible space. She has lived
28   in her home for 41 years and has beautiful trees on her property. There is no desire to cut down
29   those trees. She reiterated the need for additional information about what this will mean.
30
31   Philip Policelli gave his address as 4891 South Wallace Lane. His comments have to do with the
32   extension of the dark blue area to the north. He also asked about I-215 being used as a boundary.
33
34   Lori Khodadad gave her address as 6575 Canyon Crest Drive. She explained that it is hard to
35   know what questions to ask because of the limited information. While she understands this will
36   impact her property in a serious way, there needs to be more education about what will happen.
37   Ms. Khodadad expressed concerns that insurance companies will use this map to take away
38   insurance from people living within the boundary area. Her insurance increased significantly last
39   year, so she would like additional information so she can know what to expect in the future.
40
41   Gaylord Bartholoma gave his address as 5904 South Tolcate Woods Lane. He explained that
42   Progressive was his insurance company, but last year, they decided not to insure anymore because
43   the property was within a certain fire zone. He asked if this will make insurance impossible.
44



     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                     12
 1   Connie Jensen stated that she owns property at 5560 South Wasatch Boulevard, which falls into
 2   the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (“FCOZ”). She wanted to know how this will impact the
 3   property. There have been attempts to build there, but there have been some difficulties. She
 4   asked if the changes that are being considered differ from FCOZ and if FCOZ is being changed in
 5   some way. Ms. Jensen asked about access and whether an entrance will need to be provided off
 6   of her property. She also wanted to better understand the timing of the current discussion.
 7
 8   Anna Policelli gave her address as 4891 South Wallace Lane and pointed out her home on the map.
 9   Based on what has been presented, her home would be impacted, but not the home across the
10   street. There is a fire hydrant in front of her house, so she asked if her property should be included.
11
12   There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.
13
14   Mr. Teerlink addressed some of the public comments. He reviewed Page 33 of the Meeting
15   Materials Packet, which is the 2006 Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code. In 2006, the State
16   adopted this code in response to some major fires that happened on the west side of the valley.
17
18   Mr. Teerlink shared information about ember travel and the issues that can occur, even if there is
19   a hydrant located close to a property. From the State point of view, the Structure Exposure Scores
20   essentially establish a threshold. The code itself will apply to new construction, additions, and
21   new buildings. The Building Official will need to review the code and be certified to apply it.
22   Mr. Teerlink offered to sit down with Captain Brown to consider scenarios the public is worried
23   about.
24
25   Mr. Teerlink mentioned the public comment related to I-215. He explained that he has gone to
26   look at some of the streets to see the situations the Structure Exposure Score is trying to address.
27   He can see the same conditions in both a five score and four score, which are usually found along
28   the I-215 corridor. From a planning perspective, the worst-case scenario is considered. The
29   boundary has been extended because it has the same conditions all the way to 4500. Moving away
30   from Wallace Lane, the areas with a Structure Exposure Score of five that are next door to fours
31   have better accessibility from a public street. In those situations, the most rational geographic
32   location was selected. He reported that a boundary was proposed in order to start discussions.
33   Captain Brown shared a comment about insurance and the State mandate for the boundary map.
34   He informed those present that FFSL will hold a public meeting on November 6, 2025.
35
36   Chair Roach asked for additional clarification about defensible space and FCOZ. Mr. Teerlink
37   reported that what is being considered by the Planning Commission does not change FCOZ but
38   would be in addition. He explained that FCOZ regulates how lots are split on slopes and hillsides.
39   As for accessibility, the Fire Department will use private fire lanes and public roads to access
40   wildland fires. Mr. Teerlink shared information about defensible space. He expressed concerns
41   about quick burning underbrush and scrub oak. Chair Roach noted that a question was asked about
42   the overhead electrical facilities. Mr. Teerlink reported that Rocky Mountain Power normally has
43   their own easement around power lines, which ranges between 5 and 10 feet depending on the
44   voltage that runs through that line. Those should be cleared anyway, regardless of this code.
45


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                       13
 1   Members of the public asked to share additional comments. Chair Roach re-opened the hearing.
 2
 3   Lori Khodadad asked if the City is responsible for drawing the map. Mr. Teerlink shared
 4   information about assessments and the boundary that has been presented to the Commission.
 5
 6   Heidi Tward gave her address as 6247 Canyon Cove Court. If there is vegetation within 30 feet
 7   of her home, but the vegetation is on a neighboring yard, she wanted to know who is responsible
 8   for clearing the buffer zone. Mr. Teerlink stated that this will come down to enforcement.
 9   Mr. Christopherson reported that the defensible setback is not set by property lines. In this
10   particular situation, it does not mention a setback from a property line, but from a structure. He
11   reminded those present that the City is reacting to the mandate that came from the State
12   Legislature. Mr. Christopherson reiterated that the setback is from structures and not from
13   property lines. There is a possibility that if vegetation is within 30 feet of a neighboring house, it
14   may need to be removed.
15
16   Tina Katz gave her address as 6450 Crest Mount Drive and asked about disclosure. She wanted
17   to know where to direct someone interested in purchasing property in this area. Mr. Teerlink stated
18   that every municipality is intended to adopt an overlay zone. It would be possible to call the
19   Building Department and ask for information about the Wildland Urban Interface Overlay Zone.
20
21   There were no further questions. The public hearing was closed.
22
23   Commissioner Tripeny believed the Commission has been asked to look at the boundary and make
24   a recommendation to the City Council. Chair Roach acknowledged that several public comments
25   asked what happens after the boundary map is adopted. He wanted to know how this will impact
26   current property owners. Mr. Teerlink clarified that there would primarily be impacts seen when
27   redevelopment is considered or proposed. Chair Roach believed that other than the unknown
28   insurance factor, this is unlikely to lead to a lot of changes unless building that takes place.
29   Mr. Teerlink noted that there will likely be a letter sent out from UFA related to defensible space.
30
31   Mr. Christopherson stated that part of the idea behind H.B. 48 was to address insurance companies
32   coming in and cancelling coverage due to wildfire concerns. With that defensible barrier, the fire
33   risk is reduced. He shared information about fires that occurred in California. The idea is not to
34   create an additional burden for property owners, but to eliminate the burden of insurance
35   companies canceling coverage. He believes the State is attempting to take proactive steps.
36
37   Commissioner Gong noted that one path forward would be to state that there are a lot of unknowns,
38   but the State has to clarify those. The Commission could note that the map makes sense for what
39   it is intending to do, but there is still some uncertainty about the implications. Another path is to
40   acknowledge that there is a deadline for this, but more answers might be obtained before the next
41   Planning Commission Meeting. Mr. Teerlink explained that the Commission could state that the
42   proposed boundary is a good place to start. In that case, there could be a recommendation of
43   approval made to the City Council with an acknowledgement that the boundary could be amended
44   at a later date, if necessary. Alternatively, there can be discussions about the boundary area now.



     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                      14
 1   Mr. Christopherson reminded those present that the Planning Commission is not adopting the map.
 2   The Planning Commission will ultimately make a recommendation for City Council consideration.
 3
 4   Commissioner Cunningham asked what would happen if the Planning Commission recommended
 5   approval to the City Council. He wanted to know if the map could change without coming back
 6   to the Commission. This was confirmed, but there will be a public hearing at the City Council
 7   level as well. Mr. Teerlink added that the homes shown in the light blue area would not be noticed
 8   next time. Commissioner Cunningham thought it made sense to approve the boundary map with
 9   the dark blue area, but he thought there should be some language about a property owner appeal.
10
11   Discussions were had about the language included in the Building Code. Commissioner
12   Cunningham does not believe the Planning Commission will have more information to review in
13   two weeks. As a result, it makes sense to forward a recommendation of approval. Commissioner
14   Tripeny noted that the fees will not be from the City. He added that a property in the dark blue
15   section will not necessarily have to deal with fees. The Commission reviewed the map in the
16   Meeting Materials Packet. Mr. Teerlink wished he had additional information now, but it is
17   possible there will be more details provided during the FFSL meeting that is scheduled.
18
19   Commissioner Cunningham moved to Forward a Recommendation to the City Council to
20   APPROVE a drafted proposal by City Staff and UFA to establish a Wildland Urban Interface
21   Overlay Zone and associated Code based on the following findings:
22
23          1.      Proposals align with the State of Utah H.B. 48 as established to create an Overlay
24                  Zone in which the Utah Wildland Fire Code (2006) may be applied.
25
26          2.      The proposed Overlay Zone creation has been reviewed by UFA and the City
27                  Council as the preferred alignment.
28
29   Commissioner Berndt seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Cunningham-Yes;
30   Commissioner Tripeny-Yes; Commissioner Fonte-Yes; Commissioner Gong-Yes;
31   Commissioner Berndt-Yes; Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.
32
33   ADJOURN
34   Chair Roach moved to ADJOURN. There was no second. The motion passed with the
35   unanimous consent of the Commission.
36
37   The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 8:23 p.m.




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                    15
1    I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
2    of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held on Tuesday, October 28, 2025.
3
4
5

6    Teri Forbes
 7   Teri Forbes
 8   T Forbes Group
 9   Minutes Secretary
10
11
12   Minutes Approved: ________________




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 10/28/2025

                                                   16
