PLANNING COMMISSION
City of Holladay
January 6, 2026
City Council Chambers – 4580 S. 2300 E. Holladay

This public meeting will be held in-person and also transmitted via live video stream on the City of Holladay webpage.
Participation in a public hearing portion of this meeting can be accomplished in either of the following ways:

    • During the meeting: address the Commission when the item is called by the Commission Chair
    • Email: comments must be received by 5:00 pm on 01/05/2026 to the Community and Economic Development
       Department; cmarsh@holladayut.gov. Emailed comments will be read by the Commission Chair.



MEETING AGENDA

    5:30 PM WORK SESSION – The Commission may discuss any or all agenda items. No decisions or
            voting to occur.

    6:00 PM CONVENE REGULAR MEETING – Public Welcome & Chair Opening Statement


CONTINUED PUBLIC H EARING

        1.       Zone Map Amendment – Rezone from R-2-10 to P-O- 4545 S., 4555 S., and 4559 S.
                 Highland Dr.
                 Continued Review and recommendation to City Council on a proposal by applicants Jamie
                 Walker and David George, representing property owners Matthew Michalis and David George to
                 amend the Holladay Zone Map at this location from the current, Residential, Two-family Zone
                 (R-2-10) to the Professional Office Zone (P-O) for approximately .36 acres of property,
                 consisting of two lots and a driveway access parcel. Item reviewed as legislative action,
                 according to procedures set forth in Holladay Ordinance §13.07.
                                                                                                      File #25-4-10

ACTION ITEMS

        2.       Approval of Minutes
                   i. 06/24/2025
                  ii. 12/2/2025

ADJOURN



CERTIFICATE OF POSTING

I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above agenda notice was posted on the City of
Holladay bulletin board, the City website www.holladayut.gov, the Utah Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn, and was emailed
to the Salt Lake Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.

DATE POSTED: [DAY, MONTH DATE, 2024 @ TIME AM/PM]
The Chair shall call the meeting to order at the appropriate time, greet the people, and read the
        following statement:

             •    The City of Holladay Planning Commission is a volunteer citizen board whose
                  function is to review land use plans and other special studies, make
                  recommendations to the City Council on proposed zoning map and ordinance
                  changes, and approve conditional uses and subdivisions.

             •    The Planning Commission does not initiate land use applications; rather acts on
                  applications as they are submitted. Commissioners do not meet with applicants
                  except at publicly noticed meetings.

             •    Commissioners attempt to visit each property on the agenda, where the location,
                  the nature of the neighborhood, existing structures and uses related to the
                  proposed change are noted.

             •    Decisions are based on observations, recommendations from the professional
                  planning staff, the City’s General Plan, zoning ordinance and other reports, by all
                  verbal and written comments, and by evidence submitted, all of which are part of
                  the public record.

             •    Meeting procedure can be found on the back of the agenda.
                     RULES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
               PLANNING COMMISSION FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS
The Planning Commission Chair or Vice Chair is the Presiding Officer and will conduct the hearing

   1.      INTRODUCTION. The Presiding Officer informs those attending of
           the procedure and order of business for the hearing.
   2.      STAFF PRESENTATION. City Staff briefly introduces the request that
           prompted the public hearing. The presentation shall not last more
           than five minutes.
   3.      SPONSER PRESENTATION. If desired, the applicant or his/her
           representative may also make a presentation. The presentation
           shall not last more than fifteen minutes.
   4.      PUBLIC COMMENT. The Presiding Officer asks for public comment
           on the matter before the Commission. Comments are limited to
           three minutes and speakers are allowed to speak only once.
           Speakers are requested to:
          (a) Complete the Citizen Comment Form
          (b) Wait until recognized before speaking
          (c) Come to the microphone and state their name and address for
               the record
          (d) Be brief and to the point
          (e) Not restate points made by other speakers
          (f) Address questions through the Presiding Officer
          (g) Confine remarks to the topic
          (h) Avoid personalities
After each citizen has spoken, Commission members may ask questions of the
participant before the Presiding Officer resumes or closes the hearing.

  5.       APPLICANT SUMMATION/RESPONSE. Following citizen comment
           and questions by the Commission, the applicant shall be given an
           opportunity to give up to fifteen minutes summation and/or
           response prior to closing of the public hearing.
  6.       CLOSING THE HEARING. If there is no further public comment,
           questions by Commission members, or final response by the
           applicant, the Presiding Officer shall conclude the hearing at least ten
           minutes in advance of a subsequently scheduled public hearing. The
           Commission may vote to extend the public hearing past the starting
           time of a subsequent public hearing.
  7.       CONSIDERATION OF ITEM. At the close of the public hearing, the
           Commission shall consider the item, discuss its merits and vote on
           the matter or vote to continue it at a future meeting.
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ
ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŝƚǇŽĨ,ŽůůĂĚĂǇ
ϴϬϭ͘ϱϮϳ͘ϯϴϵϬ

 &/>η 25-4-10                                      4545 S. HIGHLAND DR. REZONE TO P-O
 4                                             /^/KEdzW͗
  4545 S. Highland Dr.                                 Administrative:

      4 22-04-405-121                     Public hearing required. PC shall make a motion of either,
  LOT 1, BELLA CASA SUBDIVISION. LESS THE S 20 FT
                                                       denial, approval or to continue. All motions require findings
  THEREOF                                              which support the decision. As directed by ordinance,
                                                       applications shall be approved if the Land Use Authority
                                                       finds Substantial Evidence of compliance with applicable
                                                       requirements. Holladay Ord. 13.06.050.B2 and 13.08
   6  4
  Jaimie Walker Homes                                  ^/ds//E/dzDW

  4
  Matthew Michalis

      4
  R-2-10

 'EZ>W>E/^dZ/d4
  Highland Drive Master Plan - Seg A
 /dzKhE/>/^dZ/d͗
  District #1
 Wh>/EKd/d/>^4
  Published and mailed 12/5/2025
 4
  Zone Map Amendment

      4
  13.07.030
  General Plan - HDMP Segment A



   4
  Zone map
  Staff Report
  Applicant Narrative
  Applicant supporting doc.
                                                       EŽƚĞƐ͗




 4
  Carrie Marsh, City Planner

                                                                                                                 ?
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning


                         PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
                                                January 6th, 2026

ITEM # 1
Request: Zone Map Amendment
Project: Rezone from R-2-10 to P-O
Address: 4545 S., 4555 S., and 4559 S. Highland Drive
Applicants: Jamie Walker and David George, representing property owners Matthew Michalis and David
George
File No.: 25-4-10
Notice: Mailed Notice on December 22, 2025
Staff: Carrie Marsh

GOVERNING ORDINANCES:
13.07.030       AMENDMENT TO THE ZONE MAP
General Plan    HIGHLAND DRIVE MASTER PLAN
13.44.010       PROFESSIONAL OFFICE ZONE

REQUIRED PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION: Legislative
Public hearing to be held. Zone map amendments are proposed changes to the City of Holladay zoning
map. Decisions on proposals to amend the zoning map is legislative action, requiring the Planning
Commission to hold a public hearing, review the proposal, and forward a recommendation, with findings,
to the City Council for final decision/action.

SUMMARY
The applicant, Jamie Walker Home Design, with property owner Matthew Michalis, is requesting to
change the zone designation of three parcels located at 4545 S., 4555 S. and 4559 S. Highland Drive from
its existing zone of R-2-10 (Residential two-family) to the P-O zone (Professional Office). Two of the
parcels are individual lots and the third parcel is a separate parcel for shared driveway access. The
parcels total .36 acres (15,681 sq. ft). The parcel with frontage on Highland Drive does not contain any
structures, the rear parcel contains one residential dwelling unit.

The subject property is located on the east side of Highland Drive, across the road from a grocery store,
a fast-food restaurant, a gas station, and several other commercial businesses. The two individual
parcels share a driveway on the south side. The property owner of the rear parcel intends to keep the
existing home on the property and, if the owner desires to continue its current residential use would
seek a conditional use permit for a mixed-use development if the rezone were to be approved.

The applicant is seeking a change in zone in line with the guidance in the Highland Drive Master Plan,
Segment A, to enable the development of the front parcel (4545 S Highland Drive) to serve as a small
local architectural office space. The rear parcel is also involved in the application, which would enable



4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                              Page 1 of 8
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning

the existing home to either be used as permitted office space, or could continue its residential use with
a conditional use permit should the P-O zone be approved. The property owner has expressed an
interest in potentially seeking a historical designation to preserve the existing home, built in the 1920s.

Rezoning the property to P-O does allow uses beyond office space, including medical, dental,
educational, and personal services. The variety of allowed uses are relatively small in scale and
considered to have a lower impact than those allowed in commercial zones. A variety of allowed uses
within the zone creates adaptability in shifting economies, which helps provide long-term economic
stability and vitality in new development.

The size of the property creates a natural limitation on intensity of use as there is a smaller total area
available for structures, driveway access, and parking. The amount of parking on the site ultimately
serves as a regulating factor of any use. Traffic going to and from the proposed development or other
uses allowed within the PO zone does not impact any other neighboring residential developments as all
traffic to and from the site is on Highland Drive.

 GENERAL PLAN APPLICATION/ANALYSIS
Implementing zone regulations to anticipate growth needs/goals is a particularly important land use
decision. As a legislative action, this decision is guided by the community standards given in the
Highland Drive Master Plan and the City of Holladay General Plan and is supported by Title 13 of the
Land Use Ordinances of Holladay.

The Highland Drive Master Plan is a small area plan specifically for Highland Drive. The plan
recognizes that “Infill opportunities are limited; open spaces and energy resources are diminishing. The
Plan suggests new zoning patterns along Highland Drive”.

Segment A is identified as the section from 3900 S. to Arbor Lane and is described in the plan:
      “Holladay controls the east side of Highland Drive to Murray Holladay Rd. and both sides from
      there south to Arbor Lane. The street is currently developed with right-of-way widths ranging
      from 80 feet to 106 feet. Land use patterns are primarily commercial and multi-family
      residential developments. “

The plan acknowledges that “Infill opportunities are limited; open spaces and energy resources are
diminishing. The Plan suggests new zoning patterns along Highland Drive”.

In Segment A, the following land use strategy is identified: “Existing zoning in this segment has
developed a healthy mix of commercial and higher density residential uses. Any changes to the current
zoning patterns should be considered only if the new zoning will enhance the existing uses and
strengthen the whole City.”

As the proposed zoning change is to a professional office zone, Section B, “Commerce” of the Highland
Drive Master Plan is also relevant to this application. The commerce section reiterates that business is a
key economic engine for the City of Holladay and states that “Measures that attract economic vitality




4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                               Page 2 of 8
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning

while protecting core community values should be encouraged along all segments of Highland Drive as
allowed in this document.”

New zoning is the first of six strategies for “revitalization of the existing commercial uses and for
encouraging new commercial uses where permitted in this document along all segments of Highland
Drive”
    1. Allow new zoning that fosters the grouping of compatible businesses in order to enhance
       economic synergy in the current commercial areas;

Highland Drive is a major arterial road with widths up to 106 feet. The existing road configuration in this
segment of Highland Drive has been fully improved to 5 lanes and can support the minimally increased
traffic capacity generated by the development of a professional office on a small parcel.


Holladay General Plan (2025)

Chapter 5: Walkable and Connected Community
CC Goal 5: Support sustainable growth through compact, mixed-use, and transit-friendly development as
identified in the Future Land Use Map.
         CC Policy 5.1. Incentivize compact, mixed-use development along key corridors and near transit
         stops to encourage walkability and reduce vehicle trips.

Chapter 6: A Strong Local Economy
Highland Drive “The Highland Drive small area is the third largest economic district within the City by
gross sales, generating $23 million in 2023. Within the area, food service is the number one sales
generator followed closely by repair and maintenance businesses. This district is one that may see
change within the life of the plan because of underutilized properties, planned improvements to Highland
Drive, and its proximity to growth in the adjacent City of Millcreek. See Chapter 5 Walkable and
Connected Community and the Highland Drive Master Plan for more information.”

Business Retention and Attraction
Highland Drive is identified as a Minor Economic District (see Map 4.1) “…the City has limited
commercial space, redevelopment of mixed-use nodes must be thoughtful to provide a variety of spaces
for potential business.”
Local Economy Goal 1: Collaborate to enhance existing commercial property values and promote new
development while maintaining neighborhood stability.
Local Economy Policy 1.1: Identify opportunities for and maximize the feasibility of commercial
redevelopment and infill within existing commercial areas.

Chapter 8: Responsible Renewal and Infill
Responsible Infill Policy 1.3: Direct new commercial development to existing commercial and activity
areas.




4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                              Page 3 of 8
                                             City of Holladay
                                  Community and Economic Development
                                             Planning and Zoning

Responsible Infill Action 1.3.i. Establish, enhance, and maintain appropriate land use, architectural
and/or landscape buffers to protect neighborhoods from encroachment where uses transition or have
incompatible characteristics.
Responsible Infill Action 1.3.ii. Encourage mixed‐use development at the Royal Holladay Hills site,
Holladay Village, Holladay Crossroads area, in addition to other key areas of the City that are
transitioning from solely commercial to mixed‐use

REZONE PROPOSAL ANALYSIS
The applicant’s proposal to rezone the property, which has frontage onto Highland Drive, is in line with
the Highland Drive Master Plan and further supported by the Holladay General Plan.

Within the adopted code for the Professional Office Zone, a purpose is defined in §13.44.010A:
        “The purpose of the PO Zone is to set standards for areas in appropriate locations for
        professional and business offices, personal services and other compatible uses such as a
        commercial daycare facility. Developments in the PO Zone are intended to be compatible with
        abutting residential uses and to buffer residential development or zones from more intense land
        uses.”

Management of Rezone Requests to the P-O zone is detailed in §13.44.010B.
      “In evaluating any rezone application for this zone, preference shall be given to those properties
      which:
              1. Occur within a General Plan district supporting appropriate of either Professional
              Office-Commercial (PO-C), Mixed-Use development, or other similar areas such as the
              Highland Drive Small Area Master Plan area (HDMP),
              2. Will result in an upgrade of the building and/or site, and
              3. Will enhance property values and contribute to the economic sustainability of the
              City.

The subject property is across the street from a large commercial development that has several uses of
high intensity including a fast-food restaurant with drive through, a gas station, and a grocery store.
There are multiple other commercial uses in the same development.

Several other businesses occupy the other two corners of the 4500 S. and Highland Drive intersection.
The west side of Highland Drive consists entirely of professional office space and two residential uses in
older homes sandwiched between high-intensity commercial development at 4500 South. and Murray
Holladay Road.

The east side of Highland Drive in the vicinity consists of several higher intensity residential uses with
private roads serving six to twenty-six units that are accessed from Highland Drive, and
commercial/professional uses on properties that have frontage on Highland Dr.

From 4500 S. to 4675 South, the subject property is one of two residential property uses with direct
driveway access/frontage onto Highland Drive. All residential developments in the vicinity have private




4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                                Page 4 of 8
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning

roads that intersect onto Highland Drive, creating separate, gated neighborhoods without any units
fronting onto, or having direct, singular residential driveway access onto Highland Drive.

South of the private residential neighborhoods with roads that intersect with Highland Drive, there are
six parcels with direct frontage and access on Highland Drive.
     1. A daycare which involves two parcels and multiple structures
     2. A residential home occupation
     3. A professional office (retaining the R-M zone from Salt Lake County which allowed office uses,
        many of which uses were on Highland Drive),
     4. A historic home long used as professional office space, now as small scale commercial (R-M)
        and.
     5. A bank (R-M zone)

Another high density residential development has private road access between the historic home and
the bank (4. And 5.). After 4675 South, the land uses then shift to commercial with C-2 zoning to Murray
Holladay Road.

Considering the elements in the Highland Drive Small Area Master Plan, the goal to incentivize
redevelopment that increases economic vitality, and an assessment of the existing development and
infrastructure in the area, a P-O zone is considered appropriate as a land use with a lower intensity that
blends between residential and commercial uses.

The isolated nature and smaller size of the parcel limits redevelopment intensity as parking and other
zoning standards must be met.
Zoning that allows professional offices enables redevelopment of a new building that meets current
commercial codes that create safe and accessible space for business uses into the future and fulfills
individual professional needs and desires for modern, accessible, and usable space. New office buildings
also serve as an economic draw to the city as businesses seek newer office spaces which older buildings
and adaptations of residential homes lack.

CHANGE OF USES
The Table of Allowed Uses (§13.100) guides land use in each zone. The shift to a professional office zone
from a residential zone change does shift the primary use significantly, professional office space is
commonly located on arterials and are often adjacent to multi-family residential uses. The change to
professional offices and other allowed uses would not have a significant impact on the Highland Drive
infrastructure or the surrounding properties. Any proposed use must comply with parking standards for
the use as detailed in §13.80.

REDEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
As a new structure and redevelopment are a driver behind the rezone request, included is a review of the
zoning standards for the P-O zone. The P-O zone was created in 2018 and takes neighboring residential
zones and development into account by increasing setbacks on property lines that abut residential uses.
The P-O zone also moves structures closer to the street, which further separates them from residential
structures that are set further back from the street.




4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                              Page 5 of 8
                                           City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning




        LOT AREA:    10,000 SF MIN
        LAND USES:   A focus on professional and non-professional services within an office or clinical
                     setting.
        LOT WIDTH:   65 FT
        SETBACKS:    Front:10 FT-minimum, Maximum no greater than the abutting buildings
                     Side: Same as abutting properties, graduated height applies
                     Corner side: 20 FT
                     Rear: 20 FT, or 30 FT if abutting residential
        HEIGHT:      40 FT – Graduated height applies
        COVERAGE:    70% maximum with impervious surface provisions
        LANDSCAPING: Parking lot landscaping standards, perimeter setbacks have to be landscaped
                     buffering against residential uses
        SIGNAGE:     Same as previously required by the RM zone, monument and crown signs only
        APPROVALS: Standard approval procedures using the three-step method adopted in Chapter
                     3
        LIGHTING:    Professionally designed lighting plan to be approved by the Planning Commission
                     during site plan/conditional use permit process. Emphasis on compatibility with
                     adjacent uses and using minimum light necessary to achieve visibility and
                     security. Max height of poles: 30’. Low intensity and shielded from uses on
                     adjacent property and directed away from adjacent residential properties.
                     All light sources shall be full cutoff fixtures, completely concealed with an opaque
                     housing.
        PARKING:     No parking in the front setback or corner side setback unless appropriately
                     screened from public view.
        WALKWAYS: 6’ wide
        SCREENING:   The project area shall have a decorative tinted concrete or masonry wall along
                     rear and side yards that abut residential uses. This requirement can be waived or
                     modified by the Planning Commission upon a determination that the wall is not
                     necessary to buffer the abutting use or that a different type of screening
                     instrument is acceptable.
        OUTSIDE STORAGE: not permitted


TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission allow the applicant time to present their petition and to
also gather input from the public via required Public Hearing. Merits of the proposal should be discussed
within the framework of points mentioned above (General Plan guidance). As legislative matters are often
complex, this item may be continued to a later date for further discussion and final recommendation.
However, if a recommendation to the City Council can be derived from tonight’s discussion, a set of
findings is required to accompany the motion, as per ordinance 13.07.030.G.2.




4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                           Page 6 of 8
                                            City of Holladay
                                 Community and Economic Development
                                            Planning and Zoning

Staff is in favor of the rezone application, as the identified zone is supported by the Highland Drive
Master Plan and enables redevelopment in line with the HDMP. Staff recommends that the applicant is
to seek a conditional use permit for a mixed-use development if the residential use is to be continued in
the home behind the new development. The Commission can also engage the applicant regarding
seeking a historical designation to ensure preservation of the rear home.

Staff urges the Commission to moderate discussion around the following points:
         a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
              General Plan
         b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
         development in the vicinity
         c. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect abutting properties; and
         d. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, such as,
         roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage
         systems, environmental hazard mitigation measures, water supply, and wastewater and refuse
         collection.

CONSIDERATION STANDARDS
13.07.030G: Approval Standards:
       1. A decision to amend the text of this title or the zoning map is a matter within the legislative
           discretion of the City Council. The City Council, after reviewing the Planning Commission
           recommendation, may:
               a. Adopt the amendment as recommended by the planning commission;
               b. Make any revisions to the proposed amendment that it considers appropriate;
               c. Remand the proposed amendment back to the planning commission for further
                    consideration; or
               d. Reject the proposed amendment.
       2. In reviewing a text or map amendment, the following factors should be considered:
               a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                    of the city's general plan;
               b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
                    existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
               c. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect abutting
                    properties; and
               d. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, such
                    as, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools,
                    stormwater drainage systems, environmental hazard mitigation measures, water
                    supply, and wastewater and refuse collection.


RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to amend the
Holladay Zoning map from R-2-10 to P-O at 4545 S., 4555 S., and 4559 S. Highland Dr. based on the
following findings:



4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                               Page 7 of 8
                                           City of Holladay
                                Community and Economic Development
                                           Planning and Zoning


        1. The proposed amendment is compliant with the Purpose of the Land Development Code by
           promoting and facilitating the orderly growth and development within the City of Holladay.
        2. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the Highland
           Drive Master Plan
        3. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the General
           Plan
        4. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development
           in the vicinity,
        5. As zoning standards in the proposed zone are applied, the proposed amendment is not
           foreseen to adversely affect abutting properties.
        6. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, such as, roadways, parks
           and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage systems,
           environmental hazard mitigation measures, water supply, and wastewater and refuse
           collection are adequate.


SUGGESTED MOTIONS

For a potential motion to recommend Approval or Denial:

“I Motion to forward a recommendation to the City Council to (APPROVE, DENY) an application by Jamie
Walker and David George to amend the City of Holladay zoning map for .36 acres of land located at
4545 S., 4555 S. and 4559 S. Highland Drive, based upon the following findings: ___”


For a potential motion to motion to continue for further discussion:

“I Motion to continue the application by Jamie Walker and David George to amend City of Holladay
zoning map for property located at 4545 S., 4555 S. and 4559 S. Highland Drive to the next regularly
scheduled meeting”




4545 S. Highland Dr. Rezone to P-O                                                            Page 8 of 8
                           4555 and 4545 S Highland Drive Rezone

The property rezoning requested fits with the Highland Drive Master plan Segment A. The
Building the proposed Jamie Walker Architects building is compatible with other uses along
Highland drive. Building a new building allows for an upgraded building, Landscape and design
elements that fit in the area and follow the Highland Drive Master Plan. The development
accommodates and allows the existing home to remain.
                    Neighborhood Mee ng Notes

                           11-17-2025

                         Items Discussed

Fencing

Trees/Landscaping

Traﬃc

Building type

Building use
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ
ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŝƚǇŽĨ,ŽůůĂĚĂǇ
ϴϬϭ͘ϱϮϳ͘ϯϴϵϬ

 &/>η n/a                                PLANNING COMMISSION MINUTES
 4                                 /^/KEdzW͗
  N/A                                      Administrative/Procedural:

      4                       Commission shall approve, approve with changes or continue
  n/a
                                           to a later date the agenda item




   6  4
  City of Holladay, Planning Commission    ^/ds//E/dzDW

  4
  N/A

      4
  N/A

 'EZ>W>E/^dZ/d4
  N/A
 /dzKhE/>/^dZ/d͗
  N/A
 Wh>/EKd/d/>^4
  N/A
 4
  Written Meeting Minutes Approval

      4
  Utah Code 52-4-203
  13.06.030



   4
  Draft Meeting Minutes


                                           EŽƚĞƐ͗




 4
  Jonathan Teerlink, Planning Manager

                                                                                                 ?
 1                                               DRAFT
 2
 3                           MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
 4                            PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
 5
 6                                      Tuesday, June 24, 2025
 7                                             6:00 PM
 8                                      City Council Chambers
 9                                       4580 South 2300 East
10                                          Holladay, Utah
11
12   ATTENDANCE:
13
14   Planning Commission Members:                        City Staff:
15
16   Karianne Prince, Vice-Chair                         Carrie Marsh, City Planner
17   Ginger Vilchinsky                                   Brad Christopherson, City Attorney
18   Angela Gong
19   Paul Cunningham
20
21   WORK SESSION
22   In the absence of Chair Roach, Vice-Chair Karianne Prince called the Work Session to order at
23   5:30 PM.
24
25   City Planner, Carrie Marsh, reported that the Highland Park Planned Unit Development (“PUD”)
26   was originally approved in 2022. There was discussion at that time regarding the back side. The
27   original Site Plan showed the townhomes in one section and various iterations of the road. Most
28   of the open space for the PUD was in the back toward the west side of the property. Tree removals
29   were tied to which were to be impacted by building footprints and roadways. The original approval
30   included tree canopy sustainability with trees within buildable areas being approved for removal.
31   Photos were provided showing the new trees proposed to be removed. Ms. Marsh explained that
32   they are on the perimeter of the property.
33
34   Commissioner Cunningham’s understanding was that the ordinance gives considerable deference
35   to the Arborist to identify which trees need to be removed and why. That decision hinged on
36   evidence provided by the Arborist. Ms. Marsh confirmed that the Arborist is also a Tree Removal
37   Company. It is standard protocol to retain an Arborist who is affiliated with the tree removal
38   company, who can assess the health of the trees and determine which should remain. The
39   developer hired a tree removal company that provided the assessment. The letter provided in the
40   Commission packet is the original letter upon which the previous approval was based, and trees
41   are within those building and road footprints. Ms. Marsh explained that an amendment was being
42   sought because there are trees outside of the footprint that the Planning Commission would have
43   to approve. The request was part of the Conditional Use Permit associated with the PUD.
44



     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 06/24/2025

                                                    1
 1   The Landscaping Plan was presented but had not been provided to the Commission in advance of
 2   the meeting for review. It included the proposed replacement trees as well as the affected tree
 3   canopy. Specific trees on the property were identified and discussed. Ms. Marsh stated that there
 4   is often a question regarding tree quality and health. The intent of the Tree Canopy Sustainability
 5   Ordinance is to improve the tree canopy over time and replace older or diseased trees with newer
 6   ones. The result is to replenish the existing tree canopy. There is continual difficulty with site
 7   development when trees are in questionable health. From the developer’s perspective, it is easier
 8   to manage those trees now and put in fresh landscaping and fencing.
 9
10   Vice-Chair Prince commented that the issues raised in an e-mail received earlier in the day
11   pertaining to privacy and water drainage seemed to be beyond the scope of the Planning
12   Commission. Ms. Marsh explained that drainage is managed with engineering. Any drainage from
13   a property cannot drain onto neighboring properties. The Engineering Plans ensure that drainage
14   is retained on site. The location of the main stormwater retention area was identified. Site grading
15   will ensure that all runoff flows to that central area.
16
17   With regard to privacy, any new development will have new trees planted. The Staff Report
18   addressed the difference in land use and how that changes over time. Ms. Marsh explained that
19   the existing land use has a small home with large trees. When redevelopment takes place, there
20   will be a significant impact while adhering to the land rights of the property.
21
22   With regard to the quality of trees, there is nothing in the ordinance that takes into account what
23   quality trees are. It is within the Commission’s purview to decide whether the applicant adequately
24   complies with the Tree Canopy Ordinance and the intent of a PUD with open space. It was
25   clarified that the ordinance requires 1-for-1 replacement with the tree caliper based on canopy
26   coverage once the tree is mature. The replacement will cover 11,745 square feet. It takes some of
27   the larger trees that have a lot of canopy coverage and disperses them into smaller trees. Smaller
28   trees will be planted along the perimeter where there is limited space.
29
30   Ms. Marsh stated that the property is zoned multi-family and the developer is entitled to 12 units.
31   They are allowed to cover up to 60% of the lot. It was noted that the road and building count
32   toward the lot coverage. 40% landscaping is required, not including the tree canopy.
33   Commissioner Gong was concerned about the clear intent on the part of the developer to not keep
34   any of the existing trees, as they have not been watered.
35
36   CONVENE REGULAR MEETING – Public Welcome and Opening Statement by
37   Commission Chair.
38   Chair Roach called the Regular Meeting to order at approximately 6:00 p.m. Commissioner
39   Vilchinsky read the Commission Statement.
40




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 06/24/2025

                                                      2
 1   PUBLIC HEARING
 2   1.      “Highland Park” PUD – Site Plan Amendment- 4880 South Highland Circle (R-M
 3           Zone).
 4           Continued Review and Consideration of Submittals by Applicant, Alec Moffit, to
 5           Modify the Site Plan of the Highland Park PUD, a .74-Acre Site containing 11 units
 6           within the R-M Zone, to Accommodate Tree Removals. Review conducted according
 7           to Final Site and Building Approvals (Conceptual:10/4/22, Preliminary: 1/10/23) and
 8           Development Standards of the Residential Multi-Family Zone §13.32 and §13.08.080
 9           of the City of Holladay Code. File #22-1-11.
10   City Planner, Carrie Marsh, presented the Staff Report and stated that the request involves a
11   previously approved Planned Unit Development (“PUD”) subdivision in the R-M Zone. The
12   property is located at 4880 South Highland Circle. The previous land use was residential with a
13   home that was used as a business. What is proposed is a shift toward multi-family development.
14   The site was previously approved with 11 townhomes. The previous approval included only trees
15   to be removed that were directly impacted by building and road footprints for fire access. As the
16   applicant began working toward site development, their tree assessment involved additional trees
17   outside of the previous approval on the west and north sides.
18
19   Ms. Marsh reviewed the Landscape Plan and stated that the total lot coverage for the R-M Zone is
20   60% for buildings and roads with 40% landscaping. Also included was the Tree Canopy
21   Replacement Plan to replace over 9,000 square feet of existing tree canopy with 11,000 square feet
22   of tree canopy. The Landscape Plan shows the new trees that will be planted. The proposed
23   removals were detailed by the applicant in the application. A larger Willow tree on the front east
24   side of the property was originally to be removed but will now be preserved. The trees that are
25   affected by the roadway and building footprints are interior. The additional trees that are outside
26   of the original approval were identified. The applicant provided a Tree Assessment prepared by
27   an Arborist with Diamond Tree Experts who detailed all of the trees on the site.
28
29   The applicant, Alec Moffitt, from Sequoia Development, reviewed the trees on the site and stated
30   that Tree #2 is the Willow tree identified. It was originally removed from the list because there
31   was another large tree on the site that the City wanted to keep. The health of the tree, however, is
32   in question. They will try to preserve it but there was doubt that it would survive construction.
33   Tree #1 included a group of pine trees in the middle of a building. The same was true for Tree #3.
34   Tree #14 is in a road, and Trees #9, 8, 7, and 6 are on the north side. Trees #9, 8, and 7 have died,
35   and #6 has a large root system that will be severely impacted by the road. It was not expected to
36   survive. The concern was that it would become a hazard. Tree #12 is in the middle of the road.
37   Tree #11 is close to the building footprint. Trees #4 and 5 were in question. The developer hoped
38   to obtain approval to remove them while they try to save them.
39
40   Mr. Moffitt stated that they will save as many trees as possible. He noted that they purchased the
41   property because of the large, mature trees. It was unfortunate that over the past two years, while
42   the project has been on hold, the trees have not received any water or care. As a result, their health
43   has declined. Their desire is to remove only trees that are sick or dying or that will be adversely
44   impacted by construction.
45


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 06/24/2025

                                                       3
 1   A question was raised regarding who removed the irrigation system. Mr. Moffitt responded that
 2   they razed the home and removed the water meters. Immediately afterward, interest rates
 3   skyrocketed. Their initial plan no longer penciled and they had to stop construction immediately.
 4   Since then, they have tried to reduce the cost of the homes so that they would be reasonably
 5   affordable. Doing so allowed them to allow the project to move forward. During that time,
 6   however, no water got to the trees. Mr. Moffitt explained that the trees they will be replacing will
 7   significantly increase the canopy that existed previously.
 8
 9   Vice-Chair Prince opened the public hearing.
10
11   Joseph Amici gave his address as 4828 South Highland Circle #303 and stated that his home abuts
12   the subject property to the north. He expressed support for the proposed changes and stated that
13   currently there are mature trees on the property but an unsightly pile of dirt. He hoped the building
14   process could be expedited, including the proposed changes involving the replacement of canopy
15   trees. He asked that the developer maintain the property in the interim before construction begins
16   as it is unsightly, full of garbage, and covered in abandoned traffic cones.
17
18   Kevin Ludlow from Sequoia Development, gave his address as 1955 South 1300 East, Suite 104.
19   He lives in the City of Holladay and reported that they developed Bandits Restaurant and the
20   Powder House Ski Shop and are very familiar with the City. They also developed brownstone
21   residential behind the former Ace Hardware. He thanked the Commission for their consideration.
22
23   Vice-Chair Prince stated that a comment was submitted via email earlier in the day that was made
24   part of the record. A nearby resident asked about the plans for the tree removal, perimeter trees,
25   and drainage issues. Ms. Marsh offered to address those questions with the resident directly.
26
27   There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.
28
29   Commissioner Cunningham asked what was proposed for the Willow tree on the northeast side.
30   He recalled that the Commission specifically asked that that tree remain. Mr. Moffitt was seeking
31   permission to remove it, if needed. Ms. Marsh explained that the current Landscaping Plan does
32   not show the Willow Tree. The Commission can choose to modify or add conditions if desired.
33
34   Vice-Chair Prince asked if the Commission could require that if the Willow is removed, it be
35   replaced with a large tree. City Attorney, Brad Christopherson, stated that the Tree Ordinance
36   does not address large trees. His recollection was that it refers to caliper. Ms. Marsh stated that
37   replacement trees need to be 1½-inch caliper with the focus being on the mature canopy size. That
38   can be dispersed into smaller trees or a larger tree. Where the Willow is currently is in a large
39   open space that would be appropriate for a larger tree. The choice would be up to the developer.
40
41   Mr. Christopherson recommended that the Commission consider the plan as if the trees are not
42   going to be saved. Mr. Moffitt commented that the Landscape Plan does not include any existing
43   trees. He noted that there are still a lot of trees remaining. The area will be very private and
44   secluded with as many trees as possible.
45


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 06/24/2025

                                                      4
 1   The comment was made that the Arborists’ Report is not optimistic in terms of keeping any of the
 2   trees due to serious health issues. It was felt that with some foresight, the situation could have
 3   been prevented. It was thought to be due to a lack of planning. Commissioner Cunningham
 4   suggested that in the future, developers be required to continue watering the site. The comment
 5   was made that when dealing with demolition and water meters are removed, there is no way to get
 6   water to the site.
 7
 8   Commissioner Vilchinsky moved to APPROVE a Site Plan Amendment to the “Highland Park”
 9   Planned Unit Development, a residential 11-unit development within the R-M Zone located at
10   4880 South Highland Circle, subject to the following:
11
12   Findings:
13
14          1.      Complies with the allowed land uses in the R-M Zone.
15
16          2.      No changes are being made to any of the previous approvals for the PUD.
17
18          3.      Replacement Tree Canopy coverage provides for the future preservation and
19                  enhancement of desirable site characteristics.
20
21   Conditions:
22
23          1.      Tree removals are only as designated.
24
25          2.      Replacement trees to be planted as shown. Significant deviations must be
26                  approved by the Planning Commission.
27
28          3.      The developer was strongly urged you to try to keep Trees #2, 4, and 5 on the back
29                  end of the property.
30
31   Commissioner Gong seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Cunningham-Yes,
32   Commissioner Vilchinsky-Yes, Commissioner Gong-Yes, Vice-Chair Prince-Yes. The motion
33   passed unanimously.
34
35   ADJOURN
36   Commissioner Cunningham moved to ADJOURN. Commissioner Vilchinsky seconded the
37   motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.
38
39   The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 6:15 PM.




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 06/24/2025

                                                     5
1    I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
2    of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held on Tuesday, June 24, 2025.
3
4
5

6    Teri Forbes
 7   Teri Forbes
 8   T Forbes Group
 9   Minutes Secretary
10
11   Minutes Approved: ________________




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 06/24/2025

                                                    6
 1                                                DRAFT
 2
 3                            MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
 4                             PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
 5
 6                                     Tuesday, December 2, 2025
 7                                              6:00 PM
 8                                      City Council Chambers
 9                                       4580 South 2300 East
10                                          Holladay, Utah
11
12   ATTENDANCE:
13
14   Planning Commission Members:                         City Staff:
15
16   Dennis Roach, Chair                                  Carrie Marsh, City Planner
17   Patrick Tripeny                                      Jayme Blakesley, City Attorney
18   Paul Cunningham
19   Jill Fonte
20   Brian Berndt
21   Angela Gong (arrived for the Regular Meeting)
22
23   WORK SESSION
24   Chair Dennis Roach called the Work Session to order at 5:30 p.m. He noted that all
25   Commissioners were present with the exception of Commissioners Karianne Prince and Angela
26   Gong. There were three Public Hearing items on the Regular Meeting agenda, but one was
27   rescheduled to a future meeting. In addition, there were Action Items for Meeting Minutes from
28   August 19, September 2, and September 16, 2025. The Adoption of the 2026 Meeting Calendar
29   was to be voted on during the Regular Meeting. Chair Roach asked Commissioners to review the
30   meeting calendar. There were no concerns about the proposed dates.
31
32   The first Public Hearing item on the agenda is the “Wasa Valley Holdings Short-Term Rental.”
33   This is a Conditional Land Use Permit for property located at 4318 South 2300 East. City Planner,
34   Carrie Marsh, reported that this property is in the R-2-10 Zone and is located on a major roadway
35   wider than 60 feet. She clarified that those are the two main qualifications for short-term rental
36   eligibility. If those qualifications are met, the request can come to the Planning Commission for a
37   review of conditions to offset the potential impacts. The applicant submitted a thorough
38   application, which outlines the parking in the driveway and garage. There is no street parking
39   allowed. Ms. Marsh explained that the ordinance for short-term rentals has some specific
40   regulations, and the property owner needs to meet all of those regulations. There is an analysis
41   included in the Staff Report. It looks at all of the requirements related to short-term rentals.
42
43   Ms. Marsh reported that there is a requirement for snow to be removed from the sidewalks and
44   driveway within an hour. She imagines the property owner would make arrangements for snow
45   removal during the winter months. The short-term rental cannot create excessive noise, which is


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 12/02/2025

                                                     1
 1   in line with the Noise Ordinance. It is possible for the Planning Commission to consider a
 2   Condition of Approval for increased fence height with neighbor support or vegetation to create
 3   some sort of visual and auditory barrier between the properties. There cannot be signs on the
 4   premises, which is a Condition of Approval the Planning Commission can consider as well.
 5
 6   The Fire Marshal did not have any concerns about the short-term rental application but wanted to
 7   make sure that the residential egress was maintained so it is possible to leave in an emergency
 8   situation. The firewall between the structures is adequate for Building Code and no other
 9   modifications are proposed with the use. Ms. Marsh pointed out that the Staff Report mentions
10   easement access. This was discussed and is not something that needs to be further regulated.
11
12   Chair Roach referenced an earlier comment about visual barriers. It looks like the neighbor to the
13   south has an awning that goes to the property line. He asked if there was any fencing that exists
14   between the two units in the backyard. Ms. Marsh is not certain and suggested that he ask the
15   applicant that question during the Regular Meeting. She believes there is some vegetation back
16   there already. There could be a Condition of Approval to state that outdoor use of the property
17   must be restricted to the hours of the Noise Ordinance, such as outdoor cooking or hot tub use.
18
19   Commissioner Brian Berndt asked if there is a maximum number of occupants allowed in the
20   short-term rental. Ms. Marsh explained that it is restricted by parking. Commissioner Berndt
21   noted that a lot of cities have a restriction on occupancy. Ms. Marsh did not receive comments
22   from the Building Official about a set occupancy number, and there is nothing within the code. It
23   states that short-term rentals cannot have more than four bedrooms. She is not sure what the
24   Building Code lists as far as occupancy per bedroom. Commissioner Berndt pointed out that when
25   there are a lot of occupants, noise can become a problem. Ms. Marsh stated that between parking
26   and noise restrictions, there are triggers for enforcement and potential permit revocation.
27
28   Chair Roach wanted to know if there is an occupancy code that exists for regular residential use.
29   City Attorney, Jayme Blakesley, reported that there are regulations on a single-family residence.
30   It is not possible to restrict immediate family members, but it is possible to restrict the number to
31   no more than four unrelated persons. That is what is in the City Code. It is consistent with what
32   is in place across the State. He noted that it is slightly different with short-terms rentals, because
33   there might be more than four unrelated people renting a four-bedroom house. If there is a desire
34   to tackle occupancy in the Conditions of Approval, the Planning Commission decision will likely
35   need to be postponed to enter evidence into the record related to occupancy safety and noise.
36   Mr. Blakesley pointed out that occupancy is difficult to enforce, which is the reason planners tend
37   to focus on parking and noise. He noted that it is possible to measure and observe parking and
38   noise without entering the home. Commissioner Berndt asked if the motion language could state:
39   “The occupancy shall not exceed the Building Code.” It was confirmed that this can be included.
40
41   Commissioner Cunningham asked if there is a contact person for this property. He wanted to make
42   sure there is someone within a reasonable distance who could respond in the event of an issue.
43   Ms. Marsh reported that this is a second home for the applicant but there could be a Condition of
44   Approval related to local management. Commissioner Cunningham thought there should be a
45   local emergency contact. Ms. Marsh believed that is included in the Conditions of Approval.


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 12/02/2025

                                                       2
 1   Chair Roach read the condition language: “…emergency contact phone numbers, including the
 2   property owner, shall be prominently placed in a common space within the home.” There is
 3   nothing there about the proximity of those emergency contacts. He asked if that could be added
 4   to the motion language. Mr. Blakesley confirmed that it is appropriate to add that.
 5
 6   Commissioner Jill Fonte wondered if it is possible to inform the neighbors about their options in
 7   the event of a short-term rental violation. Ms. Marsh explained that there is a public process in
 8   place. There will be a public hearing held during the Regular Meeting and notice was provided to
 9   all of the neighbors. The Staff Report and proposed Conditions of Approval are also made publicly
10   available. The neighbors were reasonably notified of the potential land use. There could be a
11   Condition of Approval added to ensure that neighbors are provided contact information for the
12   property owner, but if there is an issue at a property, neighbors tend to contact Code Enforcement.
13
14   Chair Roach asked about the second Public Hearing item on the Regular Meeting agenda. He
15   questioned whether a motion needs to be made to reschedule that item. Ms. Marsh reported that
16   it will be automatically rescheduled. There does not need to be a formal motion made for that.
17
18   Mr. Blakesley recommended that the public hearing be opened because it was noticed as a public
19   hearing. It is possible that someone might have decided to attend the meeting to share comments.
20   The Planning Commission can close the hearing and take action at the next meeting, or the public
21   hearing can be continued. If the public hearing is continued to the next meeting, then the date of
22   that meeting will need to be stated for the record. Chair Roach believed it was possible to hear
23   comments and leave the public hearing open, or ask if there was anyone present to comment.
24
25   Ms. Marsh shared information about the Zone Map Amendment item that will be rescheduled to a
26   future meeting. After looking at the proposed use, it was determined that the C-1 Zone was not
27   the best zone. She explained that the re-notice will be for the PO Zone rather than the C-1 Zone.
28
29   The last Public Hearing item on the Regular Meeting agenda is a Subdivision Amendment for
30   “Royal Holladay Hills, Block H, I, J, and K.” Ms. Marsh reported that this will take another section
31   of the Royal Holladay Hills development and create parcels. This involves Block H, I, J, and a
32   portion of Block K. She explained that this process will create lots that can then be sold.
33
34   Chair Roach asked if these blocks had been seen by the Planning Commission before. Ms. Marsh
35   believed the Commission had seen Block K before, because there was a discussion about a change
36   in the way that Block K was being developed. It shifted from larger buildings to more townhouse-
37   style buildings. The Commission reviewed it and approved the architecture for Block K. This
38   process is creating some of the parcels. She explained that Block K is where the townhouses and
39   the small houses will be located. Ms. Marsh shared a map that shows Blocks H, I, J, and K. The
40   technical details, such as alignments, will be looked at during the final review process.
41
42   Chair Roach reported that during the Regular Meeting, the Planning Commission will review
43   Meeting Minutes from August 19, September 2, and September 16, 2025. For the September 2,
44   2025, Planning Commission Meeting, the recording did not work as planned, so Ms. Marsh created
45   a record from memory. There were no corrections proposed to the Meeting Minutes.


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 12/02/2025

                                                      3
 1
 2   Chair Roach closed the Work Session at 5:55 p.m. The Planning Commission took a short break.
 3
 4   CONVENE REGULAR MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
 5   Chair Roach called the Regular Meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. All members of the Commission
 6   were present with the exception of Commissioner Prince. There are three Public Hearings and two
 7   Action Items. The Opening Statement was read aloud by Commissioner Cunningham.
 8
 9   PUBLIC HEARINGS
10   1.   'Wasa Valley Holdings Short-Term Rental' - Conditional Land Use Permit - 4318
11        South 2300 East (R-2-10 Zone) Review and Consideration of a Request by Applicant
12        Rhistina Revilla as Owner, for use of the Property as a Short-Term Rental. Item
13        Reviewed as an Administrative Application as per Provisions Stated in Holladay
14        Ordinance §13.08.040 and §13.76.735. File #25-2-03.
15
16   Ms. Marsh presented the Staff Report and explained that “Wasa Valley Holdings Short-Term
17   Rental” is a Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) for a short-term rental at property located at 4318
18   South 2300 East. A short-term rental is allowed in two zones in Holladay, including the R-2 and
19   R-M Zones. The applicant property is located in the R-2-10 Zone. Ms. Marsh shared the Zoning
20   Map with the Commission and explained that this is one half of a twin home. There are certain
21   regulations that short-term rentals must abide by and there is also a CUP requirement. She
22   explained that CUPs involve conditions that can be reasonably placed on a property to mitigate
23   detrimental impacts. It does not require the detrimental impacts to be eliminated but addressed.
24
25   The property is a three-bedroom twin home. Ms. Marsh reported that the City Code requires short-
26   term rentals to be four bedrooms or less, so this home is compliant. The rentals will be for 30 days
27   or less, which meets the definition of a short-term rental. This property is located on a major
28   arterial roadway. One of the qualifications for a short-term rental is that the property must be
29   located on a roadway of at least 60 feet to address any potential traffic impacts from the use.
30
31   Short-term rentals need to be maintained to certain standards, including being in good repair and
32   having landscaping properly maintained and watered. In addition, the short-term rental must
33   continue to look like a residential property. It cannot be altered to look like a business or hotel,
34   and no signage can appear on the property advertising it as a short-term rental. In terms of
35   maintenance, snow has to be removed from sidewalks and driveways an hour after snow has
36   stopped falling. All parking has to be on the property, either in the garage or on the driveway.
37
38   Ms. Marsh reported that the Noise Ordinance has to be followed, which is between 10:00 p.m. and
39   8:00 a.m. Any outdoor pools, hot tubs, and spas cannot be used between those hours. Those
40   regulations are included as recommended Conditions of Approval. If there are complaints from
41   neighbors or issues that arise, those can be addressed through Code Enforcement. Ms. Marsh
42   noted that if there are violations of the conditions, it is then possible to look into CUP revocation.
43
44   There is a recommendation from the Technical Review Committee (“TRC”) in the Staff Report.
45   This includes recommended Conditions of Approval that consider noise and visual impacts. The


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 12/02/2025

                                                       4
 1   Commission could consider vegetation. During the Work Session, there was a discussion about
 2   occupancy and potentially adding a condition to limit that to the Building Code standards.
 3
 4   The applicant, Rhistina Revilla, identified herself as the owner and applicant. She explained that
 5   this is her second home. She loves snowboarding and is from New York. In the months that she
 6   is not using the property, she would like to rent out the home to offset the costs. Ms. Revilla does
 7   not intend to make as much money as possible from the property, but simply wants to keep the
 8   costs down on her second home. She pointed out that this property is compliant, is in an
 9   appropriate zone, and is on a large enough street. Ms. Revilla has a good rapport with her neighbor,
10   and that neighbor even asked about potentially acting as the contact person. In addition, there is
11   another person who has expressed interest in being the contact person for the property. She hopes
12   the Planning Commission will approve the short-term rental application.
13
14   Chair Roach asked if there is a fence in the backyard between the porches, which was confirmed.
15   Ms. Revilla reported that there is a fence between her property and the south neighbor and there is
16   a fence with the neighbor to the west. In terms of mitigating sound, she was thinking about a
17   pergola. She is doing whatever possible to mitigate the noise, as there is no desire to cause
18   disruption. In terms of occupancy, she believes there is a way to limit the number and discourage
19   parties. It is possible to apply restrictions, such as a minimum rental of three days or one week.
20
21   Commissioner Berndt wanted to know if someone from the City would check the property during
22   the Business License process. Ms. Marsh explained that the Building Official will do an inspection
23   to make sure it is safe for occupancy. Commissioner Cunningham asked if there are any other
24   short-term rentals within a quarter mile. Ms. Marsh reported that there are two short-term rentals
25   on Highland Drive and one on 3900. There are no short-term rentals within one-quarter mile.
26
27   Chair Roach opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.
28
29   Commissioner Gong had a question for Staff about the broader issue of short-term rentals and the
30   impact on the housing market. Ms. Marsh noted that there will always be some degree of conflict
31   due to private property rights. As a property owner, there are certain rights, and it is possible to
32   own a second home. She went to a conference, and there was a discussion about different tools
33   cities can use to incentivize long-term rentals. Cities may need to incentivize property owners to
34   have a long-term rental to make it more desirable than short-term rentals. That is a larger policy
35   discussion that can be had if there is interest in looking into more creative tools.
36
37   Chair Roach moved to APPROVE the Conditional Use Permit application by Wasa Valley
38   Holdings for a short-term rental, located at 4318 South 2300 East, in the R-2-10 Zone, subject
39   to the following:
40
41   Findings:
42
43          1.      The property is located within an R-2 Zone.
44
45          2.      The property has frontage on 2300 East, which has a right-of-way of 80 feet.


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 12/02/2025

                                                      5
 1
 2          3.     The property is not within an HOA.
 3
 4   Conditions:
 5
 6          1.     Property to retain its appearance as a residential unit.
 7
 8          2.     Any new lighting shall be night-sky complaint, full-hood style cutoff fixtures.
 9
10          3.     Property and site inspection are required to verify standards listed herein.
11
12          4.     The Conditional Use Permit number and regulations relating to off-street
13                 parking, noise limits and emergency contact phone numbers, including the
14                 property owner, shall be prominently placed in a common space within the home.
15                 The emergency contact must reside within a 30 minute distance of the property.
16
17          5.     The structure, landscaping, and driveway is to be kept in good repair and
18                 maintained, including snow removal, as required.
19
20          6.     No signs posted on the home that advertise its use as a short-term rental.
21
22          7.     Must obtain a Holladay Business License.
23
24          8.     Outdoor pools, hot tubs, and spas are not to be used before 8:00 a.m. or after
25                 10:00 p.m.
26
27          9.     Conditions or complaints found to be in violation of set standards will require re-
28                 review by the Planning Commission or possible revocation of this permit as
29                 determined by the Community Development Director.
30
31          10.    The occupancy shall not exceed the Building Code and Fire Code.
32
33   Commissioner Berndt seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Tripeny-Yes;
34   Commissioner Cunningham-Yes; Commissioner Fonte-Yes; Commissioner Gong-Yes;
35   Commissioner Berndt-Yes; Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.
36
37   2.     Zone Map Amendment - Rezone from R-2-10 to C-1- 4545 South and 4555 South
38          Highland Drive. (This Agenda Item is to be Rescheduled for a Future Date and will
39          be Re-Noticed.)
40   Chair Roach reported that the Zone Map Amendment item will be rescheduled to a future meeting.
41




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 12/02/2025

                                                    6
 1   3.      Subdivision Amendment, 'Royal Holladay Hills, Block H, I, J and K' -- 1935 and 1965
 2           East Rodeo Walk Drive, 2025 East Wilshire Road (R-M/U Zone) Preliminary and
 3           Final Review and Consideration of Submittals by Applicant, Steve Peterson,
 4           Establishing New Lots within 'Block H, I, J, and K' at the Royal Holladay Hills
 5           Subdivision. All Considerations will be reviewed by the Commission for Compliance
 6           with the SDMP (2007), and Subdivisions, Chapter 13.10a. File #19-9-19-11.
 7   Ms. Marsh presented the Staff Report and explained that this is a proposed Subdivision
 8   Amendment for Royal Holladay Hills. This is a subdivision of several blocks, including Block H,
 9   I, J, and portions of Block K. This process is done in two steps, consisting of preliminary and
10   final. The Planning Commission reviews the preliminary plans, and the final approvals are
11   handled by Staff. Decisions on subdivisions have to be made during a public meeting, which is
12   the reason this item is on the Regular Meeting agenda. All of the property owners within 500 feet
13   have been notified.
14
15   An approved Subdivision Plat for Blocks H, I, J, and a portion of Block K exists as part of the
16   primary Royal Holladay Hills Subdivision Plat. The plat was approved in 2021 and established
17   the boundaries. The applicant prepared amendments to these blocks to create the final lots. The
18   ownership areas for each of the lots are pending commercial site improvements but no
19   development or site review is proposed at this time. Ms. Marsh reported that architectural details
20   are reviewed by the Planning Commission, and some have already been seen for Block K.
21   However, that is not within the Subdivision Plat review. She explained that there is a
22   recommendation to approve the Preliminary Plat and delegate the Final Plat approval to Staff.
23
24   The Planning Commission reviewed an image of the area. Chair Roach asked if what is shown is
25   one property or if it is split down the middle. Ms. Marsh clarified that it would be split. Lot 6
26   overlaps into Block I. Commissioner Gong asked if the Commission would see these as parcels
27   or blocks in the future. Ms. Marsh explained that the development was labeled in blocks, but this
28   process is now creating parcels out of those blocks. Commissioner Gong asked if having the
29   parcels cross the blocks would cause a problem. Ms. Marsh denied this and explained that there
30   is a lot of flexibility in the Master Plan for uses between blocks. If there was an issue, then it
31   would be brought back to the Planning Commission so there could be a Master Plan amendment.
32
33   The applicant representative, Kathy Olsen, introduced herself to the Planning Commission. The
34   reason for this Subdivision Plat is that tenants have been identified. Block I will be a fitness center,
35   and there will also be a parking structure to serve the fitness center and the retail in front. The lots
36   along Rodeo Walk Drive will be retail. Chair Roach understands that the parking lot on Block J
37   will be temporary but is curious whether there will still be vegetation standards included. Ms.
38   Olsen explained that there is a service road that runs along the back side of the retail and then runs
39   along the side of the fitness center. When that road is built, it will have a lot of landscaping on
40   either side. The islands in the parking lot will have trees in them at the time the road is built. The
41   fitness center, roads, and utilities will start to happen in spring 2026, with the expectation that the
42   fitness center will open in summer or fall 2027. The retail in front of the fitness center is also
43   expected to be finished by 2027. The third retail block will likely follow after the other two.
44
45   Chair Roach opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.


     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 12/02/2025

                                                        7
 1
 2   Chair Roach asked if the temporary parking lot would have the parking lot island requirement.
 3   Ms. Marsh explained that if it becomes permanent, then it will. She does not know what the
 4   temporary lot requirements are because she was not involved in that process. She believes there
 5   might be a certain timeframe, because there is no desire for a temporary lot to become permanent
 6   and not meet the landscaping standards. At some point, there would need to be compliance with
 7   the landscaping standards, or there would be removal. Chair Roach appreciated the clarification.
 8
 9   Commissioner Fonte moved to APPROVE the Preliminary Plat Amendment to the Royal
10   Holladay Hills Subdivision for Block H, I, J, and a portion of Block K, enabling the creation of
11   new Lots 1 through 6 and Common Parcel “A” in the R-M/U Zone, located at 1935 and 1965
12   East Rodeo Walk Drive, 2025 East Wilshire Road, with Final Plat approvals to be delegated to
13   Staff. Approval is subject to the following:
14
15   Findings:
16
17          1.     Utility easements and private lane configurations accessing the blocks are found
18                 to be maintained and unchanged from 2021 plat approvals.
19
20          2.     All lot dimensions comply with the R-M/U Zone and SDMP as a Master Planned
21                 project.
22
23          3.     The Subdivision Plat Amendment complies with Holladay standards.
24
25   The Final Approval is to be delegated to the TRC, subject to the following conditions:
26
27          1.     Applicant to work with Staff on all needful clarifications, if any, made by the
28                 Commission during this meeting.
29
30          2.     Applicant to provide TRC clarifications required to modify the plat to comply with
31                 the State of Utah Subdivision Plat recordation requirements.
32
33   Commissioner Gong seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Berndt-Yes;
34   Commissioner Gong-Yes; Commissioner Fonte-Yes; Commissioner Cunningham-Yes;
35   Commissioner Tripeny-Yes; Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.
36
37   ACTION ITEMS
38   4.   Approval of Minutes
39        a.     August 19, September 2 and September 16, 2025.
40   Commissioner Gong moved to APPROVE the August 19, 2025, Meeting Minutes.
41   Commissioner Berndt seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Cunningham-Yes;
42   Commissioner Tripeny-Yes; Commissioner Fonte-Yes; Commissioner Gong-Yes;
43   Commissioner Berndt-Yes; Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.
44



     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 12/02/2025

                                                    8
 1   Commissioner Gong moved to APPROVE the September 2, 2025, Meeting Minutes.
 2   Commissioner Berndt seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Cunningham-Yes;
 3   Commissioner Tripeny-Yes; Commissioner Fonte-Yes; Commissioner Gong-Yes;
 4   Commissioner Berndt-Yes; Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.
 5
 6   Commissioner Gong moved to APPROVE the September 16, 2025, Meeting Minutes.
 7   Commissioner Berndt seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Cunningham-Yes;
 8   Commissioner Tripeny-Yes; Commissioner Fonte-Yes; Commissioner Gong-Yes;
 9   Commissioner Berndt-Yes; Chair Roach-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.
10
11   5.     Adoption of 2025 Meeting Calendar.
12   Chair Roach reported that the Planning Commission discussed the meeting calendar during the
13   Work Session. Ms. Marsh pointed out that the agenda mentions 2025, but it is actually the 2026
14   calendar.
15
16   Chair Roach moved to APPROVE the 2026 Meeting Calendar. There was no second. The
17   motion passed unanimously.
18
19   ADJOURN
20   Chair Roach moved to ADJOURN. There was no second. The motion passed with the
21   unanimous consent of the Commission.
22
23   The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 6:39 p.m.




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 12/02/2025

                                                   9
1    I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
2    of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held on Tuesday, December 2, 2025.
3
4
5

6    Teri Forbes
 7   Teri Forbes
 8   T Forbes Group
 9   Minutes Secretary
10
11   Minutes Approved: ________________




     City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 12/02/2025

                                                   10
                                  PUBLIC NOTICE OF THE
                          REGULAR 2026 MEETING SCHEDULE FOR THE
                                HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL

Pursuant to UCA 52-4-202(2), notice is hereby given that the City of Holladay will typically hold its regular
City Council meetings for the year 2026 on the first and third Thursdays of each month. The Council may also
meet on the second Thursday of every month for a work meeting beginning at 5:30 pm.
The meetings are anticipated to be held on:

                  January 8, 2026                        July 9, 2026 *
                  January 22, 2026                       July 16, 2026
                  February 5, 2026                       August 6, 2026
                  February 19, 2026                      August 20, 2026
                  March 5, 2026                          September 3, 2026
                  March 19, 2026                         September 17, 2026
                  April 2, 2026                          October 1, 2026
                  April 16, 2026                         October 22, 2026 **
                  May 7, 2026                            November 5, 2026
                  May 21, 2026                           November 19, 2026
                  June 4, 2026                           December 3, 2026
                  June 11, 2026 *                        December 10, 2026*
* 2nd Thursday
** 4th Thursday

Briefing sessions typically begin at 5:30 p.m. followed by regular Council meetings at 6:00 p.m. Meetings
are held in the City Council Chambers at 4580 S 2300 E, Holladay UT 84117.

The City Council reserves the right to adjust the above meeting schedule as needed, pursuant to the
applicable provisions of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.

All City Council meetings and work sessions are open to the public unless closed pursuant to Sections 52-4-
2044 and 52-4-205 of the Utah Code relative to the applicable provisions of the Utah Open Meetings Act.
Special or emergency meetings in addition to those specified may be held as circumstances require. A
minimum of 24 hours' notice will be given for such meetings

In accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Holladay will accommodate
reasonable requests to assist the disabled to participate in the meetings. Request for assistance can be
made by calling the City Offices at 272-9450 from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday at least
48 hours in advance of the meeting to be attended.

Dated this 8th day of December 2025.

BY ORDER OF THE HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
Holladay City Recorder
