      GROWING SLC:
			   A FIVE YEAR HOUSING PLAN
                     2018-2022




       Salt Lake City
       Housing and Neighborhood Development
GROWING SLC:
A FIVE YEAR PLAN
2018-2022

   Salt Lake City
   Housing and Neighborhood Development
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS




CITY COUNCIL

District 1 – James Rogers

District 2 – Andrew Johnston

District 3 – Stan Penfold; 2017 Council Chair

District 4 – Derek Kitchen

District 5 – Erin Mendenhall

District 6 – Charlie Luke; 2017 Council Vice Chair

District 7 – Lisa Adams

STAFF SUPPORT

Michael Akerlow, Deputy Director, Department of Community and Neighborhoods

Melissa Jensen, Director, Housing and Neighborhood Development Division

Matthew Dahl, Deputy Director, Housing and Neighborhood Development Division

Sean Murphy, Policy Manager, Housing and Neighborhood Development Division

VODA, consultants, vodaplan.com

         Mark Morris, Director

         Laura Bandara, Associate



Publication Date: 2 Jan 2018




                                                         Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
                                        TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                  1.     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY				                     9

                                  2.     GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR EVALUATING 		      15				
                               		AND APPROPRIATING CITY FUNDS 						
                               		ON HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS				

                                  3.     RESPONDING TO THE CRISIS: 			17
                               		        COMPREHENSIVE SOLUTIONS & POLICIES

                                  4.     GUIDING POLICY				                        39

                                  5.     HOUSING CRISIS				41

                                  6.     SNAPSHOT SALT LAKE CITY			                49

                                  7.     CONCLUSION    				61			



                               		APPENDIX					63

                                         APPENDIX A: HOUSING MARKET STUDY				

                                         APPENDIX B: HOUSING CHOICE SURVEY				

                                         APPENDIX C: SALT LAKE CITY’S DOWNTOWN RENTAL MARKET: 			
                                       		       PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE

                                         APPENDIX D: AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE WORKING GROUP REPORT & 		
                                       		 RECOMMENDATIONS				




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
6   Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      A MESSAGE FROM THE MAYOR

      Driven by the vision of finding opportunity to create housing, which is safe,
      secure, and enriches lives and communities, my administration’s team at Housing
      and Neighborhood Development has been working to build Salt Lake City’s first
      housing plan since 2000. The result of this work is found here in Growing SLC: A Five
      Year Housing Plan.

      Growing SLC acknowledges that it is a moral imperative to ensure Salt Lake City is
      a community where all people, regardless of race, age, economic status, or physical
      ability can find a place to call home. We are not simply focused on numbers, but in
      laying groundwork across the City to support and foster affordable housing.

      This five-year implementation plan will help Salt Lake City address the root causes
      of affordability, create long-term solutions for increasing needed housing supply,
      and expand opportunities throughout the City, while resolving systemic failures in
      the rental market, and preserving our existing units.

      To achieve these critical goals we must reform City practices to promote a
      responsive, affordable, high-opportunity housing market. This will require bold, but
      equitable, changes to existing City policies and procedures.

      If we are to truly make an impact, these must include removing local barriers; which
      limit density, prohibit needed housing types, and create development burdens. All
      of this contributes to the supply deficit, and worse, economic segregation in the
      City.
                                                                                               Jacqueline M. Biskupski
      At the heart of Growing SLC is also opportunity to work with community partners          Mayor
      to design and build new high-quality, innovative, and affordable homes throughout
      every part of the City. Salt Lake City has a long tradition of working with public and
      private partners to fund, design, and construct affordable housing, and it is through
      these partnerships that the goals outlined in Growing SLC will be addressed.

      Growing SLC affirms Salt Lake City’s commitment to equity. To ensure that everyone
      has access to the housing they need to grow and thrive, the City must empower
      our residents with the tools and education they need to exercise their rights as
      renters and homeowners.

      The true test of any plan lays not in its preparation, but in its implementation.
      Resolving the crisis will require a community wide effort to embrace change and
      do what is necessary to ensure that we are always aspiring to be a community of
      hope, equity, and opportunity.



Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                             7
                                   Message from the Housing and Neighborhood Development Division


                                   Today, too many in our community are faced with impossible decisions and
                                   uncertain circumstances. Households are choosing between food and rent, while
                                   feeling the harsh reality of rising housing costs and limited wage growth. In the
                                   face of these challenges, Housing & Neighborhood Development (HAND) sees
                                   the opportunity to find meaningful and lasting solutions that have the ability
                                   to bring stability to all of our residents. That stability, first and foremost, comes
                                   from housing that is safe and secure, housing that is affordable, and housing that
                                   enriches our communities. We proudly present “Growing SLC: A Five Year Plan
Michael Akerlow, Deputy Director   2018-2022” as a response to the challenges of our community and as a reflection
Department of Community and        of our commitment to our mission of enhancing livable, healthy, and sustainable
Neighborhoods                      neighborhoods.

                                   This plan proposes a fundamental shift to how housing is prioritized in the City,
                                   as well as a broad restructuring of City process and a commitment to long-term
                                   funding. The plan outlines a thoughtful strategy for ensuring long-term affordability
                                   and preservation that continues to enhance neighborhoods, while balancing their
                                   unique needs. Moreover, it considers that as we grow we must build, but build
                                   thoughtfully, in a way that is sustainable, equitable, and durable.
Melissa Jensen, Director
Housing and Neighborhood           Over the years, HAND has derived its success and strength from public and private
Development Division               partnerships that have educated our team, built successful projects, and reached
                                   out to help those most in need. The implementation of this plan will require those
                                   same partnerships to ensure that we are leveraging the brightest minds and
                                   maximizing every dollar. HAND has taken bold steps to address the housing crisis
                                   and Salt Lake City is committed to working in a thoughtful and deliberate fashion
                                   to ensure that as the plan is implemented our stakeholders guide and inform the
Matt Dahl, Deputy Director         process. We cannot achieve these goals alone and welcome the participation of our
Housing and Neighborhood           nonprofits, developers, financial institutions, businesses and residents to join us in
Development Division               making Salt Lake City a place where everyone can live.

                                   This plan is an opportunity. An opportunity to respond where the market has failed
                                   and to stay true to our values of inclusiveness and innovation. We must embrace
                                   the opportunity that exists in the challenges ahead and we look forward to your
                                   help, commitment, and partnership over the next five years.



8                                                                                                    Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


      Universally, the home is the bedrock upon which every person builds the
      foundation of their lives. The home is fundamental to establishing roots in a               SALT LAKE CITY
      community and achieving a basic sense of safety, security, and stability for those
                                                                                                  HOUSING PLAN
      that live within its walls. It is when these basic needs are met that people have the
      ability to take a risk and improve their situations, to contribute socially, culturally,
                                                                                                   AT-A-GLANCE
      and economically, and build a better community.                                             Policy solutions over the
                                                                                                   five year period of this
      In recognition of the role that housing plays in the success of the individual                  plan will focus on :
      and the community, this plan is intended to establish that Salt Lake City is a
                                                                                                 (1) UPDATES TO ZONING
      place for a growing diverse population to find housing opportunities that                      CODE
      are safe, secure, and enrich lives and communities. This plan outlines the
                                                                                                 (2) PRESERVATION OF LONG-
      housing solutions through which Salt Lake City will advance this vision. This plan
                                                                                                     TERM AFFORDABLE
      imagines a city where all residents, current and prospective, regardless of race, age,
                                                                                                     HOUSING
      economic status, or physical ability can find a place to call home. To achieve this
      goal, the City’s housing policy must address issues of affordability at the root cause,    (3) ESTABLISHMENT OF A
                                                                                                      SIGNIFICANT FUNDING
      creating long-term solutions for increasing the housing supply, expanding housing
                                                                                                      SOURCE
      opportunities throughout the city, addressing systemic failures in the rental market,
      and preserving our existing units.                                                         (4) STABILIZING LOW-INCOME
                                                                                                      TENANTS
      Salt Lake City is growing. From 2010-2014, the city gained 4,400 new residents,            (5) INNOVATION IN DESIGN
      doubling the pace of growth that was recorded between 2000 and 2010. Estimates
                                                                                                 (6) PARTNERSHIPS AND
      anticipate that this growth will continue, adding an additional 30,000 residents
                                                                                                      COLLABORATION IN
      by 2030. Salt Lake City’s current population of 190,873 people consists of 75,923
                                                                                                      HOUSING
      households. The average household in Salt Lake City includes 2.45 people,
      with 52 percent of the households being comprised of families.                             (7) EQUITABILITY AND FAIR
                                                                                                      HOUSING
      Salt Lake City’s population includes unique characteristics, notably a high
      proportion of millennials and minority groups and a low proportion of seniors.
      Post-college aged millennials (age 25-34) account for 21 percent of the population,



Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                  9
                                                     which is higher than peer cities such as Boise (14%) and Portland (19%) and on par
        Salt Lake City Residents
              by Age, 2014                           with cities like Denver and Austin (both 22%). Additionally, minority groups make
                                                     up approximately 35 percent of the city’s population, of which one-fifth of the total
                                                     population identify as Latino. The majority of these groups live west of Interstate
                                                     15. Conversely, Salt Lake City has an unusually low population of seniors, with
                                                     those age 65 and older only accounting for 10 percent of the population. These
                                                     demographic characteristics are important to understanding the unique housing
                                                     wants and needs of the population as a whole. Each generation has different
                                                     ideas and behaviors that influence their decisions at each stage of life, and in the
                                                     aggregate create the demand for housing that the city is currently experiencing.

     Nearly 4 of every 10 Salt
     Lake City residents is an                       Salt Lake City is in the beginning stages of a systemic housing crisis that
     adult millenial (between 18                     highlights the shortcomings of the multi-year economic rally. While many factors
     and 34 years old).
                                                     have contributed to the housing crisis, at its root is the demand for housing in
     Source: BBC Housing Market Study,               Salt Lake City driving up home prices and rental rates at a faster pace than wage
     2016                                            increases. Between 2011 and 2014, rental rates increased two times faster than
                                                     the wage increase for renters. Additionally, home sale prices increased four times
                                                     faster than the wages of homeowners. Unabated, this trend will impact greater
                                                     numbers of low- and middle-income residents of the city every year pushing out
                                                     those that make it diverse and dynamic and fill critical roles and occupations in our
                                                     communities.

                                                     The growing disparity between wages and rental rates will create greater
                                                     instability in the lives of low-income households. There is currently a 7,467 unit
                                                     deficit for the 12,624 residents living in poverty and making $20,000 per year or
                                                     less. In the absence of these units which provide predictable, affordable housing,
                                                     people are forced to live in unclean, crowded, and unsafe conditions, or forced
                                                     into homelessness. These residents require a rental rate of $500 per month or less
                                                     or the burden of housing becomes overwhelming. Today, 49 percent of renters
                                                     and 22 percent percent of homeowners in Salt Lake City spend more than 30


 Salt Lake City Average
 Rents vs. Affordability
 (80% AMI)
 (source: CBRE 2016)




                                         Affordable rent for one-person household          Affordable rent for four-person household

                                                      1BR Average Rent + Utilities         3BR Average Rent + Utilities



10                                                                                                                  Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      percent of their income on housing. Additionally, 24 percent of renters are severely
      cost-burdened, spending more than 50 percent of their income on housing. For
      those already living in poverty, being cost burdened by their housing can result in       WHAT IS“AFFORDABLE”
      having as little as $500 remaining each month to cover all other costs, including         HOUSING IN SLC?
      food and healthcare. These groups are also likely to miss rental and mortgage
                                                                                                Housing and utilities
      payments, placing the stability of their home in jeopardy. Such a burden has
                                                                                                for a renter and monthly
      significant impact on children and their lifetime potential for success. Children that    mortgage payment and
      are hungry, move frequently, and experience high stress environments at home              housing expenses for a
      are less likely to perform well in school, which in turn can contribute to the inter      homeowner should be less
      generational impacts of cost-burdened households and poverty.                             than 30% of a household’s
                                                                                                gross monthly income.
      The housing crisis also impacts middle-income households. The historically
                                                                                                A single person household
      low vacancy rate of 2 percent in Salt Lake City in 2017 has driven prices up in every
                                                                                                in Salt Lake County has an
      neighborhood. In many cases, middle-income households are forced to make
                                                                                                Area Median Income (AMI) of
      the decision to locate in neighborhoods that they would not otherwise choose,             $51,690; the AMI for a family
      take on greater amounts of debt, or move to another community. In August 2016,            of four is $73,800.
      Salt Lake City conducted the Salt Lake Live Work Survey, which included people
      that commuted into the city for work. Among these commuters, 52 percent                   Affordable housing for a
                                                                                                single person in Salt Lake
      indicated that they would consider living in Salt Lake City if housing were more
                                                                                                City currently earning 60%
      affordable. Salt Lake City’s population grows by 60 percent every day from in-
                                                                                                AMI, or $41,350, would be a
      commuters, which creates significant stress on our transportation network and             rental costing approximately
      the environment. Providing more affordable options could greatly reduce these             $1,034/month, or a home
      impacts, which are shared by all residents.                                               priced around $175,000
                                                                                                (est. mortgage $824/mo +
      Exacerbating the housing crisis are local barriers to housing development.                taxes and insurance).
      These barriers, such as density limitations, prohibitions on different types of
                                                                                                Affordable housing for a
      housing, and other development regulations, have contributed in part to a general
                                                                                                Salt Lake City family of four
      supply deficit and economic segregation. Many of these regulations were created
                                                                                                earning 80% AMI, or $59,050,
      at a time of population contraction. For example, much of the east side of the            would be a rental costing
      city is zoned for single-family scale development, which significantly reduces the        about $1,476/month or
      number of residential units that can be built and drives up prices for the limited        or a home priced around
      supply that is available. While the current building boom is in part supported            $265,000 (est. mortgage
      by improvements in land use regulations that were made throughout the last                $1,193/month + taxes and
                                                                                                insurance).
      decade, the expanded application of these improvements, as well as further
      modernization, is required to reduce local barriers and create more housing
      opportunities throughout the city for low and moderate income households. The
      removal of these barriers will not solve the housing crisis on its own. Without          Source: Salt Lake County Community
                                                                                               Resources and Development (2016
      well-crafted policies and additional incentives, creating greater flexibility could
                                                                                               Area Median Income).
      result in the displacement of affordable housing. However, if done correctly, the
      removal of local barriers is fundamental to opening up neighborhoods with quality
      infrastructure, as well as strong educational, social, economic, and culture networks



Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                        11
     and institutions, to low- and moderate-income households. Raj Chetty, a professor
     of Economics at Stanford University and co-author of “The Effects of Exposure to
     Better Neighborhoods on Children: New Evidence from the Moving to Opportunity
     Project,” found that children that move to neighborhoods with less poverty will
     have a higher earning potential than their peers. While earning potential is not
     the only measurement of success, it is an indicator that policies that effectuate
     economic segregation also contribute to inter generational poverty. It’s critical that
     these barriers be removed to create greater opportunity for the residents of Salt
     Lake City and contribute to further breaking down the systems that perpetuate
     poverty in our community.

     In addition to locally created barriers, resolving the housing crisis will also
     require addressing the economic inequities in the market. This includes
     providing financial assistance to renters, programs to support home-ownership,
     financial incentives for developers, and risk mitigation for landlords. The end goal is
     to decrease the cost of renting or owning a home for low- and moderate-income
     households and increase the amount of funding they have available for rent and
     mortgage payments. These fixes are not inexpensive, and will require a long-term
     and sustainable funding source. The development of such a funding source will
     require support from the community and a network of committed local partners.

     The systemic affordable housing crisis has implications for every Salt Lake
     City resident and business. While the unique needs of our vulnerable population
     such as those with disabilities, refugees, or people experiencing homeless are not
     specifically addressed, this plan creates a flexible framework that can address the
     needs of these groups as they too search for affordable housing options. Resolving
     the crisis will require a community wide effort to embrace change and develop a
     willingness to invest a little to change a lot. The following are the housing goals
     and objectives established in this plan. Through these goals and objectives, Salt
     Lake City will work to remove local barriers to housing development, address
     economic conditions that prevent the development and preservation of affordable
     housing, and support access to affordable housing for all Salt Lake City residents.




12                                                                   Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      Goal 1: Reform City practices to promote a responsive,                               GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
      affordable, high-opportunity housing market.                                         GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
      Objective 1: Review and modify land-use and zoning regulations to reflect the
                                                                                           GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING
               affordability needs of a growing, pioneering city.

      Objective 2: Remove impediments in City processes to encourage housing
               development.

      Objective 3: Lead in the construction of innovative housing solutions.

      Objective 4: Provide residents, community advocates, business leaders, and elected
               officials with high-quality data to drive decision-making.



      Goal 2: Increase housing opportunities for cost-burdened
      households.                                                                          GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
      Objective 1: Prioritize the development of new affordable housing with an
                                                                                           GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
               emphasis on households earning 40 percent AMI and below.
                                                                                           GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING

      Objective 2: Pursue funding for affordable housing opportunities.

      Objective 3: Stabilize very low-income renters.

      Objective 4: Secure and preserve long-term affordability.

      Objective 5: Work with landlords to improve their housing stock and rent to very
               low-income households earning 40 percent AMI and below.

      Objective 6: Increase home ownership opportunities.



      Goal 3: Build a more equitable city.
      Objective 1: Eliminate incidences of housing discrimination in Salt Lake City.

                                                                                           GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
      Objective 2: Align resources and invest in strategic expansion of opportunity
               throughout all neighborhoods of the city and access to existing areas of    GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
               opportunity.                                                                GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING

      Objective 3: Implement life cycle housing principles in neighborhoods throughout
               the city.




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                  13
SNAPSHOT SALT LAKE: SUMMARY
 Salt Lake City Residents by Age,                                                             Cost-burdened City
               2014
                                          Nearly 4 of every 10 Salt Lake City residents
                                          is an adult millennial (between 18 and 34
                                          years old). Demand for housing in walkable
                                          neighborhoods and non-single family
                                          housing types by this demographic will
                                          drive the housing market for the next
                                          decade.

                                          In addition, similar housing choice preferences
                                          among the Baby Boomer cohort as they retire
                                          will put added pressure on urban types of
Source: BBC Housing Market Study, 2016    housing development.

                                          Nearly one-half of all renters in Salt Lake
                                          City are cost-burdened, and nearly one-
     Wage Increase vs. Home Sale          quarter are extremely cost-burdened (spend               Not cost-burdened
            Price Increase                more than 50% of income on rent).
             2011-2014                                                                             Cost-burdened
                                                                                                   & Extremely Cost-burdened
                                                                                            Source: BBC Housing Market Study,
                                          Homeowners in Salt Lake City are increasingly     2016
                                          cost-burdened. Wages over the last 5 years
                                          have not nearly kept pace with the average
                                          home sale price in the city.
                                                                                             Monthly Cost Burden of
                                                                                            Housing + Transportation



       Increase in homeowner              With an average annual cost in Utah of more
       wages                              than $18,000 to own and operate two cars
       Increase in home sale prices per household, the option of transit access                         40% AMI
                                          can have a major impact on the financial                     Household
        Source: BBC Housing Market Study, stability of a cost burdened household. It is
        2016                              imperative that new housing be constructed in
                                          the right locations of the city.
                                          (Source: Utah Business)
       Salt Lake City Workforce
                                                                                                Housing           Costs for 2
                                                                                                Costs             Cars

                                                                                                Remaining budget
                                          Salt Lake City has a very high in-commuter            ~$2,000/year
                                          percentage as a portion of the city’s total
                                          workforce relative to comparable cities. Of
                                          those surveyed, 52% of in-commuters would
                                          consider relocating to Salt Lake City if
                                          housing were more affordable. (Salt Lake
                                          Live Work Survey, 2016)

 Source: BBC Housing Market Study, 2016



14                                                                                                      Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      2. GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR EVALUATING &
         APPROPRIATING CITY FUNDS 					
         ON HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS
      During the City Council’s adoption process for this plan in the fall and winter of
      2017, a series of policy statements were developed to guide the City’s investments
      during implementation. The City Council approved these principles with the
      intent that they will inform and provide guidance to City officials, the community,
      developers, and all interested parties of the Council’s housing priorities when
      considering the appropriation of any City funds on housing related projects.

      The following guiding principles will help staff as they consider and evaluate
      proposals and applications for City housing funds, regardless of the funding source.




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                 15
     The Salt Lake City Council will support and fund projects that:


     1.   Adhere to federal-level efforts to encourage a mix of      11. Utilize City-owned land whenever possible.
          income in individual projects and neighborhoods.
                                                                     12. Enable residents’ success to maintain housing through
     2.   Uphold an equitable ratio of affordable to market rate         partnerships with providers of supportive services.
          new units throughout the city. Ideally, projects outside
          areas of high opportunity should have lower ratios of      13. Support tax increment and neighborhood
          affordable units.                                              development goals when utilizing RDA money for
                                                                         housing development.
     3.   Incentivize affordable housing within areas of high
          opportunity.                                               14. Identify opportunities to expedite City funded projects
                                                                         that are already in the process.
     4.   Award funding through a competitive, accountable,
          fair and transparent process to give all interested        15. Clearly articulate to the community, developers
          developers, agencies and organizations equal                   and all interested parties options for funding and
          opportunity to submit proposals for consideration.             collaborating with the City on establishing affordable
                                                                         housing in all neighborhoods.
     5.   Incentivize the preservation and improvement of
          existing affordable housing.                               16. Identify tools to increase and diversify the total
                                                                         housing supply including housing types that the
     6.   Create a net increase in affordable housing units              private market does not sufficiently provide such as
          while:                                                         family housing in the downtown area, innovative
          i. Avoiding displacement of existing affordable                housing types, missing middle housing and middle- to
               housing to the extent possible, and                       low-income apartments.
          ii. Retaining and expanding the diversity of AMI
             and innovative housing types.                           17. Include affordable housing in transit-oriented
                                                                         developments because access to public transit
     7.   Keep publicly-funded housing projects affordable as
                                                                         increases access to opportunities. Moderate increases
          long as possible.
                                                                         in density should be encouraged along transit
     8.   Create a spectrum of housing options for people of all         corridors.
          backgrounds and incomes.
                                                                     18. Include innovative parking solutions especially for
     9.   Collaborate with the private sector to include                 projects near public transit to bring down construction
          affordable units in developments that are planned              costs so more affordable housing units can be built.
          or in progress, which otherwise might not have
                                                                     19. Include quality construction materials, design, and
          affordable units.
                                                                         incorporate public or private amenities.
     10. Include collaboration with community and private
                                                                     20. Allow and encourage opportunities for projects to
          sector partners to enable opportunities for in kind
                                                                         remain at least to some extent on the City’s tax rolls.
          contributions, creative financing and service delivery
          models.




16                                                                                                          Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      3. RESPONDING TO THE CRISIS:
         COMPREHENSIVE SOLUTIONS & POLICIES

      Salt Lake City is witnessing tremendous growth as households are expanding
      and new housing is being developed. The vision of this plan, that Salt Lake City
      is a place for a growing diverse population to find housing opportunities that are
      safe, secure, and enrich lives and communities, recognizes the changing nature of
      the city, and provides the foundation for creating goals and strategies to manage
      the housing needs of tomorrow. The following pages outline the housing goals,
      objectives and strategies through which City departments and divisions, and public
      and private partners can achieve the outcomes identified in Plan Salt Lake and the
      Comprehensive Housing Policy adopted by the Council in February 2016.



      GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS: REFORM CITY
                                                                                                   GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
      PRACTICES TO PROMOTE A RESPONSIVE, AFFORDABLE,                                               GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
      HIGH-OPPORUNITY HOUSING MARKET                                                               GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING



      In order to respond to Salt Lake City’s changing demographics and the housing
      needs of its diverse communities, it is critical to begin to look within the City for real
      and responsive change that will encourage the market to develop the housing and
      infrastructure needed to accommodate our growing community. This goal focuses
      on the need to increase the diversity of housing types and opportunities in the city
      by seeking policy reforms that can enhance the flexibility of the land-use code and
      create an efficient and predictable development process for community growth.
      Strategic policy decisions that integrate the transportation system, development
      related infrastructure, financial institutions, and data, as well as innovative design
      and construction methods, can break down social and economic segregation, thus
      building a city for everyone.




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                          17
GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
                                   Objective 1: Review and modify land-use and zoning regulations

GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
                                   to reflect the affordability needs of a growing, pioneering city

GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING
                                   Plan Salt Lake’s Existing Conditions report shows that the City has not had a
                                   significant update to its zoning code since the mid-1990s. Land use decisions of the
                                   1990s came about as a reaction to the gradual population decline that occurred
                                   over the preceding three decades. Conversely, the city’s population has grown by
                                   20 percent in the last two decades, (the fastest rate of growth in nearly a century)
                                   presenting a need for a fundamentally different approach. Household type and
                                   makeup has also significantly changed to reflect smaller household sizes in the city.

                                   Increasing flexibility around dimensional requirements and code definitions will
                                   reduce barriers to housing construction that are unnecessary for achieving city
                                   goals, such as neighborhood preservation. A concentrated zoning and land use
                                   review is warranted to address these critical issues and to refine code so that it
                                   focuses on form and scale of development rather than intended use.

                                   1.1.1    Develop flexible zoning tools and regulations, with a focus along
                                            significant transportation routes.

                                   In order to respond to the demographic shift described above, modernizing
                                   zoning is key not only to catching up with the demand, but creating housing that
                                   responds to every stage of life whether just starting out or downsizing later in life.
                                   Immediate strategies that will be pursued for greatest impact include improving
                                   or expanding on zones that have supported recent housing development,
                                   including the Transit Station Area (TSA), Residential Mixed-Use (R-MU), Sugar House
                                   Business District (CSHBD), Gateway Mixed-Use (GMU), Central Business District
                                   (D-1), Downtown Warehouse/Residential District (D-3), and new form-based zones
                                   (FBUN). In addition, there is a need for in-fill ordinances that allow for greater
                                   density in existing neighborhoods, offering owners the option to subdivide large
                                   parcels to increase the utility and value of their land, removing impediments to
                                   innovative construction types, such as accessory dwelling units, and reducing
                                   parking requirements to bring down the cost of developing new housing units.

                                   Form-based zoning is not the only zoning tool that can support new housing
                                   growth, but it has many benefits, including allowing the City and residents to
                                   determine what height, depth, and general shape a building should be, thus
                                   allowing the private market to decide the best use of that space. Form-based
                                   zoning has been piloted in select neighborhoods around the city, including the
                                   Central 9th neighborhood, and has proven a successful tool for creating regulatory
                                   flexibility that supports new development, while ensuring that neighborhood



18                                                                                                  Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      character is preserved and enhanced. This has been accomplished by ensuring
                                                                                                GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
      that the form of a building fits into the neighborhood surrounding it, rather than
                                                                                                GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
      focusing regulation on the specific use of that building as traditional zoning code
      requires.                                                                                 GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING


      Expanding this system of zoning with a focus on new residential and commercial
      development along transportation corridors will allow the private market to fill
      the housing demand where the city needs it most. To ensure that the maximum
      potential of these regulatory changes is realized, the City will need to plan, design,
      fund, and construct the infrastructure that will be required to support the increases
      in residential density. This will require significant and targeted investment in
      multiple utility systems and other public improvements. Where possible, the City
      will seek public-private partnerships to fund the infrastructure improvements.

      1.1.2       Develop in-fill ordinances that promote a diverse housing stock,
                  increase housing options, create redevelopment opportunities, and
                  allow additional units within existing structures, while minimizing
                  neighborhood impacts.

      In-fill ordinances provide both property owners and developers with options
      to increase the number of units on particular parcels throughout the city. Such
                                                                                               Encouraging in-fill housing like this multi-unit
      options would also help restore the “missing middle” housing types where new
                                                                                               building throughout the city means more
      construction has principally been limited to single-family homes and multi-story         people are able to find homes in Salt Lake
      apartment buildings for decades. Missing middle housing types are those that             City. (Image: Atlas Architects)

      current zoning practices have either dramatically reduced or eliminated altogether:
      accessory dwelling units, duplexes, tri-plexes, small multi-plexes, courtyard cottages
      and bungalows, row houses, and small apartment buildings. Finding a place for
      these housing types throughout the city means more housing options in Salt Lake
      City, and restoring choices for a wider variety of household sizes, from seniors to
      young families.

      Apart from traditional infill ordinances, responding to the unusual age, form, and
      shape of housing stock should be addressed and leveraged to add incremental
      density in existing structures. This would include options for lot subdivision where
      there is ample space to build an additional home on a property or alternatively
      expand rental opportunities in existing structures. This solution responds to the
      strong preference for single-family homes that was captured in the Salt Lake Live
      Work Survey. Allowing land owners to subdivide their large, underutilized lots
      creates a path to building more single family homes in a city that has limited space
      left for them under its current land-use regulations.




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                               19
                                                While lot subdivision responds to some of the single-family home demands, the
 GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
                                                expansion of rental opportunities in existing structures is another strategy to
 GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
                                                meet affordability needs and increase access to opportunity. Allowing owners to
 GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING               subdivide large homes into apartments could be a solution resulting in rent rates
                                                closer to $500 - $600 per unit based on current market examples. Older homes
                                                throughout the city that were dissected into apartments have been grandfathered
                                                in through a unit legalization process. The unit legalization ordinance is designed to
                                                increase the safety of those existing units, not increase the total number of available
                                                units. It allows large homes with existing apartments to become legal if certain
                                                criteria are met, but there is no streamlined mechanism that allows additional units
                                                to be built within existing structures such as large homes or apartment complexes.
                                                Allowing property owners to subdivide those existing structures to add new units
Because the land is already owned, the          within them could boost the total number of inexpensive rental units on the
production cost on these small, inexpensive     market without affecting the scale of development in a neighborhood. Such an
units is reduced even further, making ADUs
the most cost-effective method of new           ordinance could actually create more units on the market without demolishing or
construction for small housing units. (Image:   constructing any new structures.
Pacific Residential Mortgage)

                                                1.1.3    Revise the Accessory Dwelling Unit ordinance to expand its
                                                         application and develop measures to promote its use.

                                                Accessory dwelling units (ADUs) will contribute to creating a range of housing
                                                options. These units, typically 500-600 square feet in size, fit on existing properties,
                                                usually behind single-family homes. The production cost on these small, relatively
                                                inexpensive units is reduced, because the price of land is removed from the
                                                equation. This model also allows for households to accommodate their changing
                                                family needs, perhaps housing a student or aging parent. The City will explore and
                                                make recommendations on clear internal processes and potential building plans.
                                                The revised ordinance should expand the use of ADUs and create design and
                                                approval standards that ensures an ADU integrates within the neighborhood.

                                                1.1.4    Reduce parking requirements for affordable housing developments
                                                         and eliminate parking requirements in transit-rich, walkable
                                                         neighborhoods or when the specific demographics of a development
                                                         require less parking, such as senior populations.

                                                The City’s parking requirements for new development have been identified by
                                                numerous local housing developers as a hurdle to keeping rents low in their
                                                projects. Reforming parking regulations has also been identified as a prerequisite
                                                for reducing housing costs by policy analysts across the country. The opportunity
                                                and construction costs associated with constructing surface or structured
                                                parking can be extremely expensive, running as high as $50,000 per parking
                                                stall. This expense subsequently adds hundreds of dollars to the rental rates for a


20                                                                                                               Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      development. This financial impact, paired with                                            Living Space vs. Parking Space
      financial institutions hesitancy to loan money
      on projects with limited parking, will require a
      flexible and strategic approach from the City.
      This means that parking requirements will be
      based on the needs of each neighborhood and
      the specific needs of new development based
      on parking demand and incentives. Further, this
      same approach will be utilized for transit-oriented
      development. City parking requirements for
      new development in transit-rich areas will be
      significantly reduced or eliminated to reduce
      the cost of construction and ultimately reduce
      apartment rental prices. In conjunction with
      the Planning Department’s efforts to revise the
      parking code, the City will work with developers
      to explore transit incentives to tenants, such as
      the HIVE Pass, when parking requirements are                                            Minimum parking requirements focus more
                                                                                              funding and resources towards storing cars
      reduced.
                                                                                              than to housing. (Image source: Sightline
                                                                                              Institute).
      Objective 2: Remove impediments in City processes to
      encourage housing development

      The City consistently hears that internal permitting and licensing procedures add to
      the total cost of all projects, especially affordable housing developments. Adjusting
      this process to incentivize affordable units may serve as an incentive for housing
      developers to engage with the City on how to integrate affordability into projects.
      Further, the savings from fee waivers and time could function as a subsidy for some
      developers, increasing the number of affordable units throughout Salt Lake City.

      1.2.1      Create an expedited processing system to increase City access for
                 those developers constructing new affordable units.

      To encourage the construction of affordable units, the City will create an expedited
      administrative process that will oversee the permitting, licensing, and inspection
      process of projects that meet a minimum threshold of long-term affordable units.
      Providing developers who build affordable units with a fast-tracked permitting
      process will decrease the cost of those projects, increasing the likelihood that such
      projects make it to the market. The process will empower the administration with
      the authority to waive fees and expedite City procedures.




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                         21
GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
                                   Objective 3: Lead in the construction of innovative housing

GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
                                   solutions

GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING
                                   Reducing regulation and decreasing processing times are two examples of reform
                                   the City needs to lead in, but the value of actually constructing new housing will
                                   stimulate local development and cannot be overlooked. One of the most important
                                   areas that the government can and should influence the private market is in
                                   pioneering technologies that provide a long-term public benefit, but that must
                                   first be “proven.” Additionally, the City must provide examples of how affordable
                                   housing can incorporate high-quality exterior design that is durable, aesthetically
                                   appealing, and neighborhood compatible. Quality design is particularly important,
                                   because it is often the few poorly designed developments that are remembered
                                   and create negative expectations for future developments.

                                   1.3.1    Lead in the development of new affordable housing types, as well as
                                            construction methods that incorporate innovative solutions to issues
                                            of form, function, and maintenance.

                                   Through the City’s Housing Innovation Lab, city staff will seek opportunities to
                                   incorporate green technologies and innovative construction methods that use
                                   fewer natural resources and lower consumer’s utility costs when developing
                                   new housing units. Additionally, the City will support the development of new
                                   or underutilized housing types that meet the unique needs of the diverse
                                   communities that live in Salt Lake City. This has already begun with projects that
                                   focus on a significant mix of resident incomes and micro-units and could be
                                   expanded to include other housing types. Efforts to develop well-designed and
                                   well-built homes that serve the changing needs of residents will improve housing
                                   choice into the future.

                                   The Planning Division and HAND will analyze and recommend processes that
                                   may allow the city to be more responsive to changing housing demands and
                                   trends so that proposals that fit into a neighborhood are easier to realize. Small lot
                                   developments, cottage courts, and tiny homes are examples of housing trends that
                                   do not meet current zoning regulations but may be appropriate in some situations.

                                   1.3.2    Establish partnerships with housing industry leaders to construct
                                            innovative and affordable developments.

                                   Two entities within the City are currently working to fill this need. The
                                   Redevelopment Agency has a proven record of utilizing innovative land-use
                                   policies, such as the City’s Form Based Urban Neighborhood Zone, and working



22                                                                                                 Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      with private partners to develop new housing types, including accessory                GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
      dwelling units and cottage homes. The City’s Housing Innovation Lab located
                                                                                             GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
      in the Housing and Neighborhood Development division also works with public
                                                                                             GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING
      and private partners to develop single-family homes and mixed-use projects to
      encourage the next generation of housing innovations. In the past year, the
      Housing Innovation Lab has undertaken a variety of projects with the goal of
      spurring innovation:
             ▪▪ Design Build Salt Lake: Design Build Salt Lake is a partnership between
                the City and the University of Utah with the goal of building high-quality
                homes that are sustainable and affordable. As part of the program,
                students will assess the development potential of small City-owned
                parcels, prepare construction plans, and work with the City to build new
                homes.
             ▪▪ Emery Passive House: In 2016, as part of the Housing Innovation Lab,
                Salt Lake City constructed a solar-ready passive home at 381 South
                Emery Street. The 2,100 square foot home includes four bedrooms, 2 ½
                bathrooms, and a two car garage. The home also incorporates innovative
                design features with the goal of minimizing utility expenses. These
                features include cutting edge insulation products and techniques, and
                advanced mechanical systems.
             ▪▪ Housing Innovation Competition: In 2016, Salt Lake City held the Housing
                Innovation Competition, which sought two teams to design and build
                high-quality, innovative, and affordable homes on City-owned property.

      It is imperative that the City continue to work with its partners to spread the
      innovative designs and constructions methods that come from their projects, so
      housing that is sustainable, functional, and affordable can become the standard in
      our community.


      Objective 4: Provide residents, community advocates, business
      leaders, and elected officials with high quality data to drive
      decision-making

      In order to measure the success of any of the objectives outlined above and below,
      the City will need to focus on accurately monitoring and reporting its progress
      as it implements this plan. Consistent and timely monitoring can also be used to
      assess impact and necessary changes that may be warranted by evolving market
      conditions.




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                    23
 GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS              1.4.1    Maintain a public-facing set of housing metrics to provide insight
                                                        into market characteristics and the performance of regulatory
 GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
                                                        changes that will drive decision making.
 GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING

                                               Ultimately, this effort will allow the public, advocates, private businesses, and
                                               elected officials the ability to participate in and hold the City accountable to
                                               this Plan. In order to accomplish this objective stakeholders must have access to
                                               meaningful and understandable information such as:
                                                 The current rate of housing unit production and types of units being produced
                                                 The change in population and demographics
                                                 The impact zoning changes are having on housing unit production
                                                 The citywide Opportunity Index
                                                 The impact of City investments such as federal grants and the Housing Trust Fund
                                                 The full cost of purchasing or renting a home


                                               GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING: INCREASE HOUSING
                                               OPPORTUNITIES AND STABILITY FOR COST-BURDENED
                                               HOUSEHOLDS

                                               This aggressive goal is dedicated to serving and addressing the needs of those
                                               most vulnerable in our community. It is driven by a strong belief that housing
                                               stability is good for the entire city, adding income to small businesses, creating food
                                               stability for children, and allowing residents to enrich their neighborhoods. Salt
                                               Lake City needs to pursue a combination of strategies outlined in the objectives
                                               below to achieve this goal. There is no singular initiative that will resolve this crisis,
                                               it must be addressed with a range of strategies to best fit the diverse needs of our
                                               entire community.

                                               To that end, over the last several years, City staff has focused on understanding how
                                               growth in the local economy has affected its most cost-burdened households. As
                                               this understanding grew, the City developed a strategy for allocating federal funds
                                               that would result in the greatest impact to these households. That initial effort
Providing developers who build affordable
                                               culminated in the 2015-2019 Consolidated Plan, “Neighborhoods of Opportunity”.
units a fast-tracked permitting process
will decrease the cost of those projects,      Unfortunately, the total amount of those federal grants is insufficient to cover the
increasing the likelihood that such projects   city’s need for affordable housing assistance. What is more troubling is that the
make it to the market. (Image: VODA)
                                               funds are consistently decreasing.

                                               If the City is going to increase the chances that cost-burdened households will
                                               weather the housing crisis, it needs to increase funding for housing development,
                                               preservation, and assistance programs.


24                                                                                                                Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      Objective 1: Prioritize the development of new affordable                                 GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS

      housing with an emphasis on households earning 40 percent                                 GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING

      AMI and below                                                                             GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING


      Recognizing the growing need to identify financing opportunities for new
      affordable housing, the City convened a Finance Working Group in the Spring
      of 2016, comprised of experts in the finance and development field, to explore
      feasible solutions to address the affordability gap for those primarily earning 40
      percent of AMI. This resulted in the production of the “Affordable Housing Finance
      Working Group Report and Recommendations”. The Working Group’s report,
      available in the Appendix, charts the path for increasing primary financing options
      for affordable housing across a range of possibilities from those that the City
      can initiate entirely on its own, to those that will require long-term effort. These
      recommendations are evident in the following objectives.

      2.1.1    Convene a Blue Ribbon Commission for affordable housing                                9TH EAST LOFTS AT
                                                                                                       BENNION PLAZA
               comprised of industry experts, advocates, partners, and government
                                                                                                      444 South 900 East
               entities.                                                                                  Salt Lake City

      As discussed earlier, collaboration is a key component of mitigating the housing
                                                                                                      54 Affordable Units
      crisis, as such the need for ongoing community leadership and guidance is critical                 68 Total Units
      to arriving at robust and locally-relevant solutions. Under the Mayor’s leadership a
      Blue Ribbon Commission, comprised of policy and industry leaders, will evaluate            The 9th East Lofts at Bennion
      the best ways in which to leverage a variety of resources, while focusing on some of       Plaza, in which 80% of units
      the city’s most challenging housing issues. This group will also be able to look at the    are affordable, opened in 2017.
      issue without geographical constraints, cultivating partnerships across jurisdictions      Located just steps from the
      and with a variety of public and private organizations.                                    900 East TRAX station, and in
                                                                                                 walking distance of shops and
      2.1.2    Consider an ordinance that would require and incentivize the                      restaurants, the 9th East Lofts
               inclusion of affordable units in new developments.                                at Bennion Plaza are midway
                                                                                                 between Downtown and the
      The need for large scale inclusion of affordable housing has driven the exploration
                                                                                                 University.
      of an inclusionary zoning (IZ) policy. Such practices fit into a larger theme
      surrounding a comprehensive strategy to increase affordable housing and increase           Salt Lake City’s Housing Trust
      the available housing stock across the “affordable” spectrum. Inclusionary zoning          Fund provided a $ 750,000
      programs refer to local land use ordinances that require or encourage developers           loan to develop this apartment
      to include affordable units in new residential developments, either applied to an          complex.
      entire city or focused on a distinct geographic area. Affordability is often achieved
      through an indirect subsidy to residential developers—including through increased          Image: Method Studio
      development capacity or other accommodations during the development review




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                       25
GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS   process—and therefore the public cost of generating affordable homes can be
                                   relatively low. HAND’s staff produced an analysis (see full report in the Appendix)
GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
                                   of how an inclusionary zoning program may be structured; the analysis identified
GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING
                                   the need for an incentive to be paired with any requirement therefore easing the
                                   financial burden on developers while increasing the likelihood for partnership.
                                   This strategy could eliminate the common criticisms of inclusionary programs
                                   related to slowing overall development and unduly increasing costs for developers
                                   who simply pass those costs on to consumers. The Division is also researching
                                   options that would focus inclusionary requirements on city-owned properties, or
                                   designated target areas, such as Redevelopment Agency Project Areas. Any future
                                   inclusionary program could also feature a payment in-lieu of construction option.

                                   2.1.3    Offer incentives to developers of affordable housing such as land
                                            discounts and primary financing options.

                                   Many of the primary financing options for affordable housing, such as tax credits
                                   and loan programs, are not meeting current funding needs. While the Salt Lake City
                                   Housing Trust Fund plays a critical role by providing low interest debt, the need for
                                   affordable housing funding continues to increase overall. As the strategies in this
                                   plan are deployed, funding sources will need to increase their capacity and their
                                   flexibility in order to incentivize new development. In addition to conventional
                                   financing, the use of land “write-offs” and other non-traditional methods of
                                   incentives will be incorporated when developing available City-owned land. While
                                   this is a common practice of the RDA and HAND, the practice will be expanded
                                   and policy should require long-term affordability and increased affordability
                                   compliance measures. To strengthen the leveraging of City land, the following
                                   will be considered: 1) a policy that requires affordable housing to be evaluated in
                                   surplus land disposition, which could include development requirements and/or
                                   allocation of proceeds from sale to the Housing Trust Fund; and 2) taking a more
                                   proactive surplus property approach which would involve an analysis of the whole
                                   portfolio of City-owned land and prioritization of parcels best for housing; and 3)
                                   evaluating if additional city staff or resources are necessary to maximize leveraging
                                   City lands and assets.


                                   Objective 2: Pursue funding sources for affordable housing
                                   opportunities

                                   There is no greater need than to identify a long-term sustainable and predictable
                                   funding source. There is no one-size-fits-all approach to addressing the housing
                                   crisis. A diverse set of tools and menu of options is needed. There is no current




26                                                                                                Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      policy or subsidy that has the capacity to address the affordable housing
                                                                                                 GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
      crisis. If this is neglected it will result in a deepening crisis that will have lasting
                                                                                                 GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
      consequences. Current financing programs, like the tax credit program and grants,
      are insufficient to meet demand and are a diminishing pool of resources with               GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING
      extremely burdensome regulatory barriers. This environment drives the objectives
      below, which target not only a funding source, but a new way of deploying
      resources quickly and efficiently to meet the unique needs of current and future
      residents.

      2.2.1     Propose a significant, long-term, and sustainable funding source for
                the development, preservation, and stability of affordable housing.

      A local funding source, as identified in the Affordable Housing Finance Working
      Group Report (Appendix D), needs to be designed in a way that could subsidize
      new units under an inclusionary program, infuse the Housing Trust Fund’s loan
      program with capital, purchase and preserve vacant land for future affordable
      development, offer program assistance, or purchase dilapidated properties for
      housing redevelopment projects. Most importantly this funding source would
      target the difficult task of stabilizing current cost burdened households through an
      incentivized rent assistance program (this is further outlined in Objective 3).

      Such a pool of funding would provide a significant investment that could be
      structured into a long-term and sustainable fund. Throughout the country, there
      are a range of options that have been effective tools for increasing local affordable
      housing funds, from relatively simple real estate transaction fees or short term rental
      fees to more time and resource intensive options, such as impact fees, bonds, or a
      levy. No matter which specific initiative these funds would be focused on, it would
      provide an immediate boost to closing the current affordability gap and providing
      housing to those households earning 40 percent AMI and less.

      2.2.2     Pursue legislative change at the state and federal level that would
                create opportunities for new incentives and revenue sources.

      While Salt Lake City is committed to addressing local issues, there is a realistic
      understanding that there is a shortage of affordable units in many Wasatch front
      cities and across the state. To this end there are several mechanisms that should be
      approached as long term legislative actions, including:
              ▪▪ Tax abatement allowing the City to issue a reduction of a developer’s taxes
                 if that developer constructed a certain percentage of affordable units
                 within their project. This could effectively reduce or refund the additional
                 cost associated with constructing the affordable units.
              ▪▪ An impact fee for affordable housing that assesses the impact that new,



Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                        27
                                              large construction projects have on overall housing affordability and
GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
                                              impose a fee on that new development to offset that impact. These fees
GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING                    are calculated and assessed for other impacts that new growth has on the
                                              city, such as streets, parks, police and fire.
GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING
                                           ▪▪ Real estate fees which could consist of a flat fee that generates ongoing
                                              revenue to offset the cost of affordable housing. These fees are widely
                                              used throughout the nation to mitigate the effects of housing booms.
                                              Communities such as Philadelphia, PA and St. Louis, MO charge fees
                                              ranging from $50-100 for recording certain real estate documents, which
                                              generates several million dollars annually.
                                           ▪▪ State and federal advocacy to increase funding available to cities for
                                              affordable housing development and supportive services for residents.

                                   Any of these initiatives would require legislative action, and therefore, a coordinated
          616 LOFTS                effort with legislators, municipalities and public partners. These efforts will be
     616 South State Street
                                   worked on in collaboration with the Blue Ribbon Commission and the legislature as
         Salt Lake City
                                   a whole.

      274 Affordable Units
        274 Total Units            Objective 3: Stabilize very low-income renters

 Situated south of the
                                   Since there has not been an increase in wages that matches the increase in cost
 downtown business district,
 616 Lofts opened in 2017.         of living the need for additional resources to stabilize very low income renters (40
                                   percent AMI) is a critical piece of a comprehensive solution. Historically, the primary
 The 616 Lofts are two blocks      source of stabilization has been the Housing Choice Voucher program, and while
 from the Courthouse TRAX          it is the foundation of support for those on fixed incomes, the elderly, and many
 stop, and along bus routes with
                                   with disabilities, it is also clear that the federal requirements demand a great deal
 15 minute headways.
                                   of administration. Additionally, the application of vouchers is not responsive to our
 Salt Lake City’s Housing Trust    local market, and residents can wait years to access this benefit as the availability
 Fund provided a $1,000,000        of vouchers is incredibly limited, therefore the need for a new, outcome based and
 loan to develop this affordable
                                   innovative method of stabilization is long overdue.
 apartment complex.

                                   2.3.1      Work with housing partners and government entities to create an
 Image: Wasatch Group
                                              incentivized rent assistance program.

                                   This strategy gets to the heart of program creation and innovation, assisting
                                   families and working with partners to ensure responsiveness to the needs of those
                                   seeking assistance through a robust rent assistance program. Under the direction
                                   of this strategy the City could utilize its own source of funding, creating guidelines
                                   tailored to meet the needs of Salt Lake City residents, taking into account the
                                   housing needs, gaps that exist in the community, and the current housing market.
                                   The program would have flexibility in a way that incentivizes economic mobility
                                   for program participants and reduces dependence on such assistance. It would



28                                                                                                  Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      also allow recipients to live in areas of high opportunity. This would provide people
                                                                                                GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
      with the opportunity to locate closer to schools of their choosing, their workplace,
                                                                                                GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
      healthcare facilities, or other amenities that match their needs. The success of such
      a strategy would be dependent on identifying a long-term, sustainable funding             GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING
      source, as outlined in 2.2.1, or other innovative funding strategies, such as creating
      single-property owner Community Reinvestment Areas to provide tax increment
      reimbursement and reduce the cost of building new supportive housing.                        Home Repair Program

      2.3.2    Work with housing partners and government entities to continue                     Salt Lake City offers home
               supporting and enhancing service models that meet the needs of                     repair loans and technical
                                                                                                  assistance to homeowners
               the City’s most vulnerable households.                                             and investors within the city.
                                                                                                  The images below illustrate
      Some very low income renters will need intensive resident services to find stability        the positive impacts the
                                                                                                  program can achieve for
      and thrive in housing. This is especially true for people entering supportive and
                                                                                                  residents and neighborhoods.
      permanent supportive housing, who require regular, ongoing care and counseling.
      Similarly, some residents earning above 30 percent AMI may benefit from less                  Before
      frequent, “light-touch” support and home visits.

      As the City works with its public and private housing partners to expand housing
      opportunities for very low income households, it needs to work with the city’s
      service provider network to ensure their needs are understood and met.


      Objective 4: Secure and preserve long-term affordability                                      After


      As a result of low vacancy rates, rising housing costs, and flattening wages it is not
      only necessary to create new affordable housing units, but also preserve them in
      the long term. This need is described in Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute’s report
      on the downtown rental market, which details the tremendous growth of real
      estate prices downtown, property that is now the most expensive in the state.
      Downtown also has the densest allowed zoning, the best access to transit, and the
      greatest number of amenities, making it an ideal location for affordable housing
      development. However, without tangible preservation tools, existing housing
      affordability is at risk of being lost amidst one of the greatest construction booms
      Salt Lake City has seen.

      2.4.1    Create an Affordable Housing Community Land Trust.

      In order to preserve the ability to develop affordable housing in the future, the
      City will create a Community Land Trust and work with its institutional partners to
      purchase land and entrust it for future development. This will ensure that as values
      continue to rise, there will still be land available to build new affordable housing as




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                       29
                                   the City grows. This mechanism preserves affordability in perpetuity in a way that
GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
                                   also ensures housing stock (single and multi-family) is maintained and well taken
GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
                                   care of through formalized partnerships.
GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING
                                   2.4.2     Work with community partners and government entities to acquire
                                             hotels, multi-family properties, and surplus land to preserve or
                                             redevelop them as affordable housing.

                                   The most cost-effective means of adding new affordable units may be to purchase
                                   existing multi-family structures, either hotels and motels or apartment complexes,
                                   renovate or redevelop those units, and partner with a local housing operator to
                                   manage the properties. Vacant, abandoned, and underutilized properties pose
                                   safety risks to the public, place a strain on the City’s resources, and detract from
                                   neighboring property values. The City will identify these properties and purchase
                                   them for redevelopment, while preserving long-term affordability. The City will
                                   also explore opportunities to acquire or partner in the redevelopment of aging
                                   public housing facilities and tax credit funded developments that are nearing the
                                   expiration of their affordability restrictions.

                                   Additionally, the City will work with government partners to prioritize affordable
                                   housing development and contributions to the Community Land Trust whenever
                                   appropriate federal, state, or county surplus land is dispossessed within Salt Lake
                                   City.

                                   2.4.3     Structure renovation programs to reduce utility, energy, and
                                             maintenance costs while promoting healthy living.

                                   As the housing stock continues to age, especially for homeowners, rehabilitation
                                   and energy efficiency upgrades will be central to long term community
                                   preservation. The City’s home repair programs provide efficiency upgrades that
                                   decrease the long-term cost for households earning modest incomes. Continued
                                   development of these programs can bring stability to households whose utility
                                   bills fluctuate considerably over the course of the year as the seasons change. The
                                   expansion of these programs will be essential in improving and maintaining Salt
                                   Lake’s multi-family and single family units.




30                                                                                                 Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      Objective 5: Work with landlords to both improve their housing                         GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
      stock and rent to very low-income households                                           GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING

                                                                                             GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING
      Throughout Salt Lake City, the age and condition of the housing stock is varied
      with some rental properties being maintained and improved, while others slowly
      deteriorate causing blight, vacancy and increased crime. Poorly-maintained
      properties are typically rented at lower cost and serve a lower-income population
      making them de facto affordable housing. However, this stock is not rent-
      restricted and may become unaffordable overnight through changing market
      conditions and ownership. In addition, such properties are often rented at lower
                                                                                                    St. Vincent de Paul
      costs serving a low-income population while the conditions of the units are not               Housing Workshop
      suited for habitability. This issue is complex as renovation can increase rents and
                                                                                              November 15, 2016
      therefore displace current tenants however, the current condition merits significant
      improvement to be habitable. In order to begin to address a few of these issues the     “We’re in a tough position. My
      following objectives lay out some alternative methods for both serving low-income       daughter collects disability and
      renters and improving housing conditions.                                               I am her full time caretaker, so I
                                                                                              can’t hold down a regular job.
                                                                                              With her disability payment
      2.5.1    Support and potentially expand incentives for landlords to rent low-           alone we could just about
               income households, including landlord insurance programs.                      afford rent, but not first and
                                                                                              last month’s rent on top. Or a
                                                                                              security deposit. If we got help
      Based on both the number of currently homeless individuals in the city and the
                                                                                              with those, we wouldn’t be out
      feedback provided through a workshop at St. Vincent’s in 2016, there is a great         here on the street.”
      need for more housing options, specifically for those exiting homelessness. The
                                                                                                        -Workshop Participant
      need for affordable options, outside of new development, but within existing
      neighborhoods is a key piece of equitable distributions of housing and access           “Why is it that most
      to opportunity. While community partners have long developed relationships              [apartment] complex or private
      with landlords there is further opportunity to increase those willing to rent to        owners refuse to overlook an
                                                                                              eviction? They act like it is your
      low-income and formerly-homeless populations while also improving the current           fault. Nobody is willing to even
      condition of their property. This may be most propelled by the creation of a            consider giving you a second
      landlord insurance program that covers possible damages and other related costs         chance. The biggest problem
                                                                                              is when most people hear that
      to ease concerns as they relate to individuals who may traditionally be considered      you live at the Road Home they
      hard to house. Adding the incentive of rehabilitation or repair can be used as an       automatically look down on
      engagement and educational opportunity to increase understanding of those who           you, they look at you like you’re
                                                                                              garbage.”
      are in most need of housing.
                                                                                                        -Workshop Participant
      2.5.2    Enhance neighborhood development programs to entice landlords
               of substandard properties to improve their rental units.

      Home repair programs like the one the City operates can be marketed specifically
      towards landlords whose properties are in need of improvement. In practice,
      these two concepts would pair nicely together, creating incentives for property



Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                    31
                                   improvements and gaining a larger pool of tenants for landlords who are willing to
GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
                                   provide rentals to previously-homeless tenants. Partnering with service agencies
GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
                                   and engaging landlords through the process will be a critical piece of expanding
GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING   this program.

                                   In addition, the program will be geared toward landlords who own properties
                                   in specific neighborhoods, streets, or nodes where additional City investment is
                                   already planned specifically in accordance with Master Plans thereby magnifying
                                   the overall impact of efforts in the target area. This process is directly related to the
                                   objective of aligning resources to create Areas of Opportunity in Goal 3.


                                   Objective 6: Increase home ownership opportunities

                                   As mentioned throughout this plan, Salt Lake City has become an increasingly
                                   difficult market in which to purchase a home, quickly becoming out of reach for
                                   anyone making less than area median income. One of the underlying issues here is
                                   that, along with the compounding effects of longer commute times and increased
                                   burden on infrastructure and resources, first-time homebuyers who move out of
                                   the city due to affordability may never return. The objective below is designed to
                                   increase accessibility to homeownership and provide a pathway for families to stay
                                   in Salt Lake City.

                                   2.6.1     Increase funding, marketing, and partnerships that will lead to more
                                             affordable homeownership programs within the city’s network of
                                             homeownership partners.

                                   As noted in the Salt Lake Live Work Survey the primary reason for leaving the
                                   Capitol City was related to housing and homeownership options and affordability.
                                   Therefore, the increase in funding should be leveraged through an increase in
                                   down payment assistance and through additional access to permanent mortgages.
                                   Currently, there is a strong infrastructure of agencies that administer housing
                                   programs and such partners should be used to expand their current programs,
                                   explore new and diverse ways of making homeownership more accessible, and
                                   increase visibility of those programs throughout the city. In addition, both the City
                                   and partners should look to the land trust model to ensure long-term affordability
                                   as it applies to homeownership. This approach will ensure that investment benefits
                                   generations to come.




32                                                                                                  Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING: BUILD A MORE                                             GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
      EQUITABLE CITY                                                                             GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING

                                                                                                 GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING
      Equity is not only about eliminating discrimination, it is also about increasing
      access to opportunity. One of the guiding principles of Plan Salt Lake is to create an
      equitable city by ensuring “access to all city amenities for all citizens while treating
      everyone equitably with fairness, justice, and respect.” The City will accomplish
      this by working to eliminate housing discrimination, strategically investing in
      neighborhoods that stand the most to gain, and building a city that meets needs of
      a diverse population.

      Actively working to eliminate discrimination in housing is not only a standard that
      Salt Lake City holds itself to, but it is also a requirement under the U.S. Department
      of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) administrative ruling of 2015, the
      Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing rule (AFFH). The City will need to focus on
      both identifying discrete acts of discrimination against protected classes, such as
      documented instances of housing discrimination against persons with disabilities,
      and policies that create a structure of discrimination, such as residential zoning
      practices that eliminate the opportunity for low income households to live in high
      opportunity neighborhoods.

      Meeting the City’s requirements under the new ruling will help sustain the ongoing
      effort to create new high-opportunity neighborhoods, which will require alignment
      across the City’s Departments and Divisions. Concentrating the City’s investment
      and its institutional partners’ investments in neighborhoods and nodes within
      those neighborhoods will yield a greater impact with finite funding. Spreading the
      concept of equity to new development and infrastructure investment also means
      integrating Life Cycle Housing (creating neighborhoods that accommodate every
      stage of life).


      Objective 1: Eliminate incidences of housing discrimination in
      Salt Lake City

      Discrimination grows when market conditions increase competition among renters,
      and competition is strong and on the rise in Salt Lake City. The Policy Institute
      reports the competition among new and existing units is incredibly strong: citywide
      vacancies rates are around 3 percent while vacancy in new construction is below
      2 percent. Working to increase the housing supply will help decrease competition
      over time, which may reduce instances of discriminatory housing practices in the
      long-term, but there are distinct actions the City will pursue to make a direct impact
      on reducing discrimination.


Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                        33
                                   3.1.1      Utilize data and evaluation efforts developed by partner
GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
                                              organizations about housing discrimination to meet the City’s
GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
                                              requirements under the Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing
GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING              ruling.

                                   While Salt Lake City’s plan to respond to the Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing
                                   ruling is not due during this plan, it is imperative that actions are undertaken to
 Affirmatively Furthering
                                   understand current discriminatory practices and evaluate ways to reduce their
 Fair Housing (AFFH)
                                   occurrence. Equity can be established are through policies and zoning as laid out
 Interpretations of the recent     earlier in this plan. During the implementation of this plan special attention will be
 AFFH administrative ruling and    paid to:
 experts on the Fair Housing
                                           ▪▪ Ensuring that local zoning policies do not create segregation
 Act of 1968 point to evidence
 that economic and racial                  ▪▪ Creating affordable opportunities in high-opportunity neighborhoods
 segregation existing within               ▪▪ Directing resources to invest in the lifting up of traditionally low-income
 America’s housing market
                                              neighborhoods
 today are largely an outcome
 of zoning policies enacted in             ▪▪ Utilizing local data about instances of discrimination to steer policy
 the 1950s and 1960s.                         making
                                           ▪▪ City staff receives the necessary training to identify discriminatory housing
 One of the most powerful
 tools that localities—cities                 practices and work with community partners to reduce such practices
 and towns—possess is zoning
 control. Since its inception,     These efforts will go a long way to increasing access and creating a more equitable
 zoning has been an effective      city. To accomplish this there must be a deepening of the City’s relationship with
 means of eliminating the          local partners, currently working on housing discrimination.
 opportunities for low-income
 residents to live in high-
                                   3.1.2      Work with partners to enhance awareness and resources around
 opportunity neighborhoods.
                                              tenant rights and responsibilities.
 This clarification on the
 1968 law asserts that simply      Another key aspect of promoting equity is ensuring the community understands
 providing protections for
                                   and is empowered to expose discriminatory practices and defend their rights as
 individuals who traditionally
 face discrimination is            tenants. The importance of this was made abundantly clear through the comments,
 insufficient in eliminating       questions, and stories that were expressed by the attendees at the housing
 discriminatory practices.         workshop held at St. Vincent de Paul, who were primarily those experiencing
 Municipalities must prove
                                   homelessness. Through the input provided at the workshop, several specific
 that they are actively working
 to identify and eliminate         areas of education were identified as being needed, including how to qualify for
 discriminatory housing            programs, what to do in the face of eviction, and tenant rights and responsibilities.
 practices.
                                   The City will coordinate local service providers to help inform and guide tenants
                                   about their rights and responsibilities. City employees and service providers would
                                   then be able to also provide information about services available throughout Salt
                                   Lake County that support tenants while also directing individuals to active lists of

                                   available properties.



34                                                                                                  Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      Objective 2: Align resources and invest in strategic expansion                                GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
      of opportunity throughout all neighborhoods of the city and                                   GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
      access to existing areas of opportunity                                                       GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING


      The City is in the unique position of having acquired a depth of knowledge about
      neighborhoods and possesses the ability to direct funds to produce the greatest
      impact in those neighborhoods. A key priority in alignment of resources is ensuring
      that they create opportunity in under served neighborhoods or conversely create
      access to neighborhoods considered areas of opportunity, where residents have
      access to jobs, healthcare, education, transportation, and other amenities.

      3.2.1    Align financial resources to increase opportunity in neighborhoods
               that score below 4.0 on the Opportunity Index’s 10 point scale.

      Access to jobs, quality education, healthcare, fresh food, transportation, and
      other amenities is key to unlocking the potential of the city’s residents to succeed
      economically. Unfortunately, these opportunities are not available in every
      neighborhood in the City. To address this geographic inequity, the City will align its
      resources to achieve significant and impactful change within specifically targeted
      areas of concentrated poverty. Funding through Community Development Block
      Grants, Capital Improvement Program, Impact Fees, RDA tax incentives, and a
      sustainable housing funding source should all be employed in creating access to
      opportunity in all neighborhoods throughout the City. This investment strategy is
      intended to increase access to opportunity, and ultimately improve the lives of the
      residents that live in the target areas. In addition to this long-term strategy, the City
      will also seek to encourage and fund the development of new affordable housing
      units in neighborhoods that are already considered areas of opportunity. Recent
      studies have shown that relocating a child from a low-opportunity neighborhood
      to a high-opportunity neighborhood can significantly increase their earning
      potential over their lifetime. In light of this finding and others like it, the City should
      strive to be a community where the success of an individual is not determined by
      their address, but on the merits of their effort.

      3.2.2    Make strategic affordable housing investments in high opportunity
               neighborhoods.

      The City and its housing partners will need to take an active role to promote
      affordable housing options in certain areas of the city where affordable options
      are especially challenging to create. Those neighborhoods scoring high on the
      Opportunity Index (4.0 out on a 10 point scale) have higher than average land
      costs, therefore requiring additional subsidies to build affordable housing units.



Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                           35
                                                    In order to capitalize on the amenities these neighborhoods present, the City and
 GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
                                                    its partners must be willing to invest in these areas with targeted policies and
 GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
                                                    resources that promote affordable housing.
 GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING
                                                    To encourage more housing in these neighborhoods, the City will review its
                                                    regulatory and acquisition policies for ways to attract more affordable development
                                                    and purchase land for the Community Land Trust.

                                                    3.2.3    Work with partners at the Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute to produce
                                                             an updated Opportunity Index assessment as a tool for guiding City
                                                             investment.

                                                    Understanding how and where opportunity is will drive how alignment should
                                                    be implemented. Further, identifying which community assets should be built,
                                                    leveraged or enhanced is a process that should be driven by residents and the
                                                    community partners. In 2013, James Wood of the University of Utah led a study
                                                    that mapped finite details about housing and opportunity in Salt Lake County.
                                                    Part of this process was developing an Opportunity Index “to quantify the number
                                                                                of important liabilities and assets that influence
                                                                                the ability of an individual, or family, to access and
                                                                                capitalize on opportunity.” An update will be necessary
                                                                                in order to track the impact of alignment efforts and
                                                                                to help neighborhoods identify which primary asset
                                                                                opportunities are missing.


                                                                                Objective 3: Implement Life cycle Housing
                                                                                principles in neighborhoods throughout
                                                                                the city

                                                                                Salt Lake City should be a place where residents are
                                                                                not stifled in their housing choice, because certain
                                                                                neighborhoods are not conducive to their stage of life.
                                                                                The goal with this objective is to enable a diversity of
Life cycle housing seeks to provide housing
choice for all residents, for all phases of their                               housing types that responds to housing needs, allowing
lives, within each neighborhood. (Image             individuals to stay in their communities as their housing needs evolve.
source: VODA)

                                                    The Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute’s demographic projections show a growing
                                                    senior population statewide, and while we know from the housing market study
                                                    that Salt Lake City’s percentage of seniors (10% of total population) is relatively
                                                    low compared to other municipalities in the state, the City will begin anticipating
                                                    the needs of a growing senior community. However, seniors are not the only



36                                                                                                                  Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      population that is demanding a different type of housing. Across the country
                                                                                                  GOAL 1: INCREASE HOUSING OPTIONS
      there are trends for micro housing, community style living, generational housing
                                                                                                  GOAL 2: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
      to accommodate aging parents, and intentional community and living space that
      co-exist (like a day care in a Senior Center). There is not one way to achieve life cycle   GOAL 3: EQUITABLE & FAIR HOUSING
      housing, but infinite possibilities and it is the goal to engage the community in way
      that not only fosters the possibility, but creates policy that allows for the building.

      3.3.1    Support diverse and vibrant neighborhoods by aligning land use
               policies that promote a housing market capable of accommodating
               residents throughout all stages of life.

      In order to truly encourage new types of housing that considers cost, energy
      efficiency, and accessibility a strong land use and zoning foundation must be laid
      that supports new types of building. The City must also understand how the type
      of housing being produced and home prices align with changing household
      dynamics. An understanding of housing demand and gaps in the housing market
      will inform land use decisions and priorities, including the disposition of City-
      owned property.

      As resources are aligned a program will be structured that encourages new
      ways of adaptive re-use or new build through the use of City-owned land and
      request for proposals. This shift in programming will also closely align with the
      Housing Innovation Lab as life cycle housing is not just applicable to low-income
      populations, but for every resident in the City.




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                         37
38   Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      3. GUIDING POLICY


      The goals, objectives, and strategies outlined in this plan were developed using
      a combination of public input, professionally generated data and analysis, and           PLAN SALT LAKE
      existing housing policy. The primary sources of current policy are Plan Salt Lake
      and the Salt Lake City Comprehensive Housing Policy. The following is a summary
                                                                                                HOUSING INITIATIVES:
      of those two documents:                                                                  1. Ensure access to affordable
                                                                                               housing citywide (including
                                                                                               rental and very low income).
      Plan Salt Lake
                                                                                               2. Increase the number of
      Plan Salt Lake was adopted by the Salt Lake City Council on December 1, 2015 and         medium density housing types
      sets a citywide vision for Salt Lake City for the next twenty-five years. It considers   and options.
      where we are as a city, where we want to be, and establishes the framework for
                                                                                               3. Encourage housing options
      decision making that will get us there. The plan is a result of consolidated existing    that accommodate aging in
      City policies and input gathered from thousands of city residents and visitors,          place.
      leaders, business owners, experts, and concerned citizens. The plan sets the stage
                                                                                               4. Direct new growth
      for future neighborhood, community, and city system plans to address how they            toward areas with existing
      will each contribute to the established 2040 Vision for Salt Lake City.                  infrastructure and services
                                                                                               that have the potential to be
                                                                                               people-oriented.
      Plan Salt Lake establishes a guiding principle for housing that seeks to achieve,
      “Access to a wide variety of housing types for all income levels throughout the          5. Enable moderate density
      city, providing the basic human need for safety and responding to changing               increases within existing
                                                                                               neighborhoods where
      demographics.”
                                                                                               appropriate.

      The plan also sets the following 2040 Targets specific to housing:                       6. Promote energy efficient
                                                                                               housing and rehabilitation of
             1. Increase diversity of housing types for all income levels throughout the       existing housing stock.
                city.
                                                                                               7. Promote high density
             2. Decrease percent of income spent on housing for cost-burdened                  residential in areas served by
                households.                                                                    transit.

                                                                                               8. Support homeless services.



Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                    39
                                                Salt Lake City Comprehensive Housing Policy

                                                The Salt Lake City Comprehensive Housing Policy was adopted on March 1,
                                                2016. The Housing Policy represents the City Council’s efforts to establish a
                                                policy direction to address current conditions in Salt Lake City. The intent is that
                                                this direction will be followed whenever the City engages in housing funding
                                                assistance, zoning and land use planning, master planning neighborhoods, and
                                                creating economic incentives. Additionally, the Housing Policy is intended to
                                                achieve the following:
Focusing housing density around rail and
                                                       1. Foster and celebrate the urban residential tradition;
bus transit facilities can have many positive
impacts on the city, as well as on individual
                                                       2. Respect the character and charm of predominantly residential districts,
households. (Image: VODA)
                                                          including those with historic character and qualities, while also providing
                                                          opportunities for the provision of local goods and services easily accessed
                                                          by neighborhoods;

                                                       3. Promote a diverse and balanced community by ensuring that a wide
                                                          range of housing types and choices exist for all income levels, age groups,
                                                          and types of households;

                                                       4. Develop new housing opportunities throughout the City;

                                                       5. Ensure that affordable housing is available in all neighborhoods and not
                                                          concentrated in a few areas of the city;

                                                       6. Emphasize the value of transit-oriented development, transit accessibility,
                                                          and proximity to services;

                                                       7. Recognize that residents, business owners, and local government all have
                                                          a role to play in creating and sustaining healthy neighborhoods;

                                                       8. Create an appropriate balance of rental and ownership opportunities in
                                                          neighborhoods without jeopardizing an adequate supply of affordable
                                                          housing;

                                                       9. Strongly incentivize or require the use of green building techniques and
                                                          sustainability practices in public and private housing developments;

                                                       10. Examine the changing needs of Salt Lake City’s population, and develop
                                                         and maintain reliable demographic information to support housing policy
                                                         and residential development;

                                                       11. Consider the needs of multi-generational households and ensure
                                                         housing products are available to meet those needs.

                                                       12. Address the livability of neighborhoods and concentrations of ageing
                                                         adults, and plan and implement strategies that will allow residents to Age
                                                         in Place.




40                                                                                                                Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      4. HOUSING CRISIS


      Salt Lake City has been experiencing an unprecedented multifamily residential
      boom since the end of the Great Recession. Between 2010 and 2020, there
      will be nearly as many apartment units built in the downtown area than
      in the previous 100 years. According to the Ivory-Boyer Construction Report
      and Database, in 2016 nearly 3,000 multi-family apartment units were permitted.
      Vacancy rates are also at an all-time low, hovering around 2 percent, with little
      indication that they will raise in the near future. Even with the increase in the
      inventory of apartments, rental rates are exceeding $2 per square foot. According to
      the October 2016 Research Brief written by James Wood from the Kem C. Gardner
      Policy Institute at the University of Utah, new downtown apartments have the
                                                                                              A recent study suggests the boom in
      highest rents in the state: the average rent for a studio is $1,000, $1,100 for a one   construction of new rental housing units in
      bedroom, and $1,450 for a two-bedroom unit. This tremendous growth is resulting         downtown Salt Lake City will continue over
                                                                                              the next five years.(Image: VODA)
      in an increasingly vibrant city in which a growing number of people want to live,
      but only those with high incomes can afford.
                                                                                                     7,500 households in SLC
                                                                                                      need help paying rent
      However, while the market rate apartment inventory continues to grow,
      affordable multi-family is at a net loss, even with the addition of new units.
      Many existing affordable units throughout the city are being leased at higher
      rental rates due to market demand, or in the fastest growing areas of the city, such
      as Downtown and Sugar House, they are being sold and converted to housing
      for those with higher incomes. In 2013, a Salt Lake City Housing Market Study
      and Gaps Analysis was completed by BBC Research primarily using Census and
      American Communities Survey data from 2000-2010. In addition to reporting
      demographic data and trends in Salt Lake City, this study identified a gap of
      approximately 8,200 rental units for those at 40 percent or below of area median
                                                                                                       Annual Income Range
      income. An updated Market Study and Gaps Analysis was recently completed using
      2010-2014 data that indicates a rental housing shortage of approximately 7,500
                                                                                                Source: BBC Housing Market Study, 2016
      units in Salt Lake City for those making $20,000 or less a year. This decrease is not




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                           41
                                         WHAT IS A “COST-BURDENED HOUSEHOLD”?
  A household spending 30 percent or more of its entire income on total housing expenses – rent/mortgage, basic utilities,
  and property taxes – is considered “cost burdened.” A household spending 50 percent or more of its entire income on
  housing is “severely cost burdened.”
  49 percent of all renters in Salt Lake City are cost burdened and 23 percent of all renters are severely cost burdened.
  In comparison, 22 percent of all homeowners are cost burdened and only 8 percent are severely cost burdened.



                                              a result of new affordable housing units, but is due to a slight increase in incomes
                                              between 2011 and 2014.

                                              The development and preservation of affordable housing is one of the most
                                              pressing and complicated issues facing not only Salt Lake City, but the nation
                                              as a whole. And while it is a conversation that is continuing both at federal and
                                              local levels, funding resources continue to be jeopardized and, in many cases,
                                              decreased. Salt Lake City has proven itself as a leader in creative and thoughtful
                                              ways to address its housing shortage through stronger relationships with the for-
                                              profit and non-profit community, financing organizations, and advocacy groups in
                                              addition to funding housing needs through federal grants and the City’s Housing
                                              Trust Fund. However, even with the great strides that have been taken, the City has
                                              now entered the beginning of a systemic crisis in providing affordable housing for
                                              all of its residents in all communities.

                                              The data from the 2013 Housing Market Study and Gaps Analysis identified the
                                              alarming trend that incomes are not keeping up with the increase of housing costs.
                                              The updated report shows that this disparity continues and may be increasing at a
Wage Increase vs. Rent Increase,              higher rate than before.
          2011-2016
                                              Salt Lake City is experiencing an affordable housing crisis and despite the efforts
                                              of many, it is not improving. Too many people are not able to find appropriate and
                                              affordable housing and many of those who are housed are spending too much of
                                              their income on housing costs. The updated Market Study provides the following
                                              data:
                                                      ▪▪ Both renters and owners lost purchasing power between 2011 and 2014
                                                         (continuing the trend from 2000). That is, sales prices increased faster
         Increase in renter wages                        than owner incomes (33% vs 8%) and rent increased faster than
                                                         renter incomes (8% vs 4%).
         Increase in rent prices
                                                      ▪▪ The rental affordability gap is higher than the owner affordability gap and
Source: BBC Housing Market Study, 2016                   renters are more likely to be cost-burdened than owners (49% of renters
                                                         and 22% of owners spend more than 30% of their income on housing).



42                                                                                                           Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
             ▪▪ Among renters, single parent families and minority households may have
                some of the greatest housing needs as they are more likely than other
                households to live in poverty; both also have low rates of homeownership.
             ▪▪ Nearly 33 percent of all renters earn 30 percent or less of area median
                income and nearly 60 percent of renters earn 50 percent or less of area
                median income (AMI).
             ▪▪ Nearly half of all renters (18,672 households) in Salt Lake City are cost
                burdened. A quarter of renters are severely cost burdened spending
                more than 50 percent of their income on housing costs. This situation
                prevents those with low incomes from being able to afford the basic
                necessities of life and further exacerbates the issues surrounding poverty.
             ▪▪ Approximately 4 percent of the city’s households—or about 3,265
                households—are overcrowded. Two percent of owner-occupied housing
                units are overcrowded and 7 percent of renter-occupied units are                Nearly one-half of all renters in
                overcrowded.                                                                    Salt Lake City are cost-burdened,
             ▪▪ Altogether, the city has a shortage of rental units priced affordably for
                                                                                                and nearly one-quarter are
                                                                                                extremely cost-burdened.
                renters earning less than $20,000 per year of 7,467 units (down from 8,240
                units in 2011).                                                                 Source: BBC Housing Market Study,
                                                                                                2016

      The data indicates that the housing market is not supplying enough affordable
      housing—in particular rental units—for those with fixed incomes who desire to live
      in the city. Incomes are not keeping up with housing costs and too many people
      are cost burdened, severely cost burdened, or living in overcrowded homes. And
      while the number of rental units decreased from 8,200 to approximately 7,500
      it is due to a very slight increase in incomes, which is not enough to cover other
      housing and living expenses.


      Poverty

      Even with the slight increase in incomes, too many of those living in Salt Lake City
      are in poverty. The Census Bureau determines those who are living in poverty
      by using money thresholds that vary by family size and composition. In 2014,
      the federal poverty level for a family of four (two parents and two children) was
      $24,008 and $12,071 for an individual. In Salt Lake City, the 2014 poverty rate was 21    Source: BBC Housing Market Study, 2016
      percent, or 40,248 people, which is down from 22 percent in 2010, but substantially
      higher than the County and State who are both at 12 percent. The city’s poverty
      rate does include University of Utah students who may have more opportunities
      for economic mobility and thus inflate poverty rates, so it may be best to look at
      the family poverty rate. Fifteen percent or 5,707 families in Salt Lake City are living
      in poverty, which is higher than peer cities of Boise at 9 percent and Denver at
      12 percent. Poverty is highest among children in the city with 30% (11,763) living
      at or below the threshold and is especially prevalent with 39 percent of single




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                             43
                                         parents in poverty. The west side area of Salt Lake City has a higher concentration of
                                         minorities and has a poverty rate of 30-40 percent. In 2010, one quarter of the city’s
                                         population was under 18 and approximately 43 percent of the city’s youth live on
                                         the west side. This data indicates that a higher number of youth living on the west
                                         side are also living in poverty.

                                         The effects of poverty negatively impact the physical, mental health, and wellbeing
                                         of the city’s children. Unfortunately, the effects of poverty are long lasting and
                                         create a barrier to breaking the cycle. According to the American Psychological
                                         Association’s website, some of the academic, physical, and psychosocial outcomes
                                         of poverty include:
                                                ▪▪ Chronic stress associated with living in poverty has been shown to
                                                   adversely affect children’s concentration and memory, which may impact
                                                   their ability to learn
                                                ▪▪ They are more likely to be developmentally delayed or have a learning
                                                   disability
                                                ▪▪ They are more likely to not complete high school
                                                ▪▪ Children in poverty are more likely to have chronic asthma, pneumonia,
                                                   and anemia
                                                ▪▪ They are more likely to have lead poisoning

        SALT LAKE CITY’S                        ▪▪ They are more likely to be low birth weight
           GREATEST                             ▪▪ Children in poverty are more likely to have an ongoing emotional or
                                                   behavioral problem that lasts 3 months or more
        HOUSING NEEDS
                                                ▪▪ Female teens in poverty are more likely to become pregnant
     1) 7,500 affordable rental
     units to meet the needs                    ▪▪ Children are ten times more likely to have experienced hunger at least
     of the city’s lowest income                   once in the past year
     renters (those earning                     ▪▪ They are more likely to be victims of child abuse or neglect
     $20,000 and less per year).
                                         While there are certainly other contributing factors, the lack of affordable,

     2) Additional residential           healthy, and safe housing further compounds the issues of poverty. As shown
     housing product to entice           previously, 25 percent of renters are extremely cost burdened, spending more
     in-commuters to relocate to         than 50 percent of their income on housing. A family of four living in poverty who
     the city, encourage current
     residents—particularly              spends half of their income on housing and 20 percent on transportation costs, is
     millennials—to remain               left with only $20 each day to provide health care, food, and other basic essentials
     in the city and provide             of healthy living. Stable and affordable housing allows parents to feel some degree
     more homeownership
     opportunities for minority          of financial security as their very basic need of shelter is being met. Such stability
     renters.                            diminishes the feeling of always being in crisis and allows parents to focus on
                                         getting out of poverty.

     Source: BBC Housing Market Study,
     2016




44                                                                                                        Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      Defining Affordable Housing

      Dialogue around affordable housing often uses words that are interchangeable or
      not clearly defined. In the truest sense “affordable housing” is something that every
      person needs regardless of his or her income. Affordable housing means that no
      person should spend more than 30 percent of their income on housing costs. HUD
      uses the following categories and AMI percentages to break incomes into segments
      so that specific housing needs can be met:

      		Median Family Income		                                100%

      		Low Income			80%

      		Moderately Low Income		60%

      		Very Low Income			50%

      		                Extremely Low Income		                30%

      However, in common vernacular, affordable housing has come to mean housing
      for those with lower incomes and is further defined by associating the term “low-
      income housing” for those in the Very Low and Extremely Low Income categories.
      Some of those who need low-income housing would include those experiencing
      or are near homelessness or those making a minimum wage. Even those who
      are working full time being paid $12-14 per hour would qualify for housing at 50
      percent of AMI. One third of Salt Lake City renters are at 30 percent or below
      AMI, and yet only 15 percent of our housing inventory would be affordable
      for them. A family of four between 60 percent and 80 percent of area median
      income (which equates to a salary range of $44,280 to $59,050) could most likely
      afford a smaller rental unit or, at the higher end of the spectrum, could afford to
      purchase a home. Once again, the inventory isn’t available or the living conditions
      would be substandard which may include overcrowding. Much of the existing
      inventory of housing that is affordable to very low income and extremely low
      income households is not restricted stock and is at risk with changing market
      conditions.

      Impediments to Affordable Housing

      Lack of Funding

      One of the primary impediments to the construction and management of
      affordable housing is a lack of financial resources. Typical funding sources include
      two federal tax credit programs that allow tax credits to be sold to an investor
      in turn giving a project 40-90 percent equity. While this is an incredibly valuable
      financing tool, the 9 percent tax credits that are the main source for funding



Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                  45
                                 housing for the very low and extremely low income are limited, making them
                                 very competitive to obtain. A project funded by the 9 percent tax credits usually
                                 has about 90 percent equity with the rest of the funding, if needed, from financial
                                 institutions, government resources and/or deferred developer fees, but the
                                 program is only available once a year with a limited number of available credits. A
                                 4 percent tax credit project offers lower equity amounts but can be done at any
                                 time. A 4 percent project does require a Private Activity Bond in the amount of at
                                 least 51 percent of the cost of the project however the State’s bond amounts have
      NORTHWEST PIPELINE         also becoming increasingly popular and recently have not been sufficient to meet
     BUILDING DEVELOPMENT        developer demand. The 4 percent projects are typically more expensive to finance
 In August 2015, Salt Lake       and require more debt resulting in higher rents thus excluding most people below
 City launched a request for     60 percent AMI. There are very few other funding sources for the construction of
 proposals to develop the        affordable housing and those that do exist can be expensive and time consuming
 historic 1958 Northwest         thus driving up costs. Another typical funding source is Section 8 Housing Choice
 Pipeline Building at 315 East   vouchers that include tenant and rental based subsidies. These traditional subsidies
 200 South. The development      are limited and may not be available to new applicants for years. In fact, many
 will provide new market rate,   housing agencies are not currently accepting applications for this program. Finally,
 affordable, and permanent       traditional bank financing is not a strong resource for the creation of affordable
 supportive housing units.       housing due to higher interest rates and other costs resulting in higher rents passed
                                 to the tenants.
 The development will include
 the rehabilitation of the       Land Costs and Availability
 Northwest Pipeline building
 and new construction on         Land costs are closely associated with the ability to finance affordable

 parcels adjacent to it. In      housing. Reducing land costs is an effective way to create opportunities for

 addition, the project will      below-market rate housing units. The more a project is subsidized the greater the

 provide much-needed             opportunity for deeply discounted units providing housing for those with very low

 Central City public space and   and extremely low incomes. Land values on the east side of the city and in major

 commercial space for local      east side corridors (such as 400 South) are usually higher than other areas, thus

 businesses.                     limiting the opportunities for affordable housing. In addition, developable property
                                 for both multifamily and single-family housing on the east side of the city is scarce,
                                 which results in higher land costs.


                                 Current Zoning

                                 A third impediment to the creation of more affordable housing is City zoning
                                 ordinances. Zoning affects land values, and if unit density is not available then
                                 land costs are too high to make affordable housing cost effective. One of Salt
                                 Lake City’s main concerns in zoning is a lack of middle income housing options.
                                 The current residential multi-family zones (RMF) do not allow for the density to
                                 make townhomes, duplexes, and small multi-family developments affordable



46                                                                                              Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      and financially feasible. Other unit types, such as Accessory Dwelling Units, are
      also currently prohibited from most areas of the city, in particular areas of high
      opportunity. Additionally, large sections of the city are zoned for a low-density
      residential land use pattern that requires lots of at least 10,000 square feet.
      Allowing for these lots to be subdivided into two buildable lots, could increase the
      density and housing options in a neighborhood without significantly impacting the
      scale of the buildings.


      Neighborhood Resistance - “Not in my backyard” (NIMBY)

      NIMBYism is unfortunately becoming more of an impediment, especially as the
      need for affordable housing grows and the conversation is becoming more
      prevalent. Too many neighborhoods lack deeply affordable housing and
      vocally oppose it coming into their communities. This opposition takes many
      forms. In some cases the concern can be about the compatibility of new housing
      types with the existing development pattern of a neighborhood or the increase of
      people and vehicles in a neighborhood without the requisite infrastructure. Often
      the concern is founded in the belief that affordable housing will result in a rise in
      crime and safety issues, a decrease in property values, and that it will be a barrier to
      future economic development.

      Those who live in affordable housing, in particular low-income housing, include a
      range of people: young couples beginning their careers, teachers, social workers,
      government employees, single mothers with children, those with disabilities—
      people in our communities who may be working one, two, or three jobs to make
      ends meet. Low-income housing is also built for those who may be struggling
      with substance abuse issues, homelessness, or mental illness. It is presumptuous
      and unfair to determine that low-income housing equates to higher crime rates
      and cannot be supported by any evidence. In fact, affordable housing, as a tool
      of economic development, can often help to lower crime rates. The National
      Crime Prevention Council calls for the construction of affordable housing to reduce
      crime because “neighborhood cohesion and economic stability are enhanced in
      areas where the continuing supply of dispersed, affordable housing is assured.”
      When managed effectively by experienced professionals these buildings are safe,
      bring eyes to the street, and often add value to a neighborhood. One excellent
      example is Kathleen Robison Huntsman transitional housing located on 300 South
      and 300 East where neighbors would probably never know that it is a place that
      provides housing for low income families.




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                     47
     Recent studies by Trulia and another by the Joint Center for Housing Studies
     at Harvard University evaluated values of properties that surround low-income
     housing developments throughout the country. There is no evidence to support
     the claim that affordable housing negatively affects surrounding property values
     and in fact, in most cases, there was an increase. This is a result of two things: good
     design and good management. Affordable housing developments in Salt Lake City
     are proving to demonstrate both of these qualities. Taylor Springs, Liberty Citywalk,
     Citifront, and NorthSix are just a few of the many developments that either have a
     mix of incomes or are exclusively affordable and are well designed and managed
     and contribute to their respective neighborhoods.

     Finally, the belief that low-income housing is a detriment to economic
     development is unsubstantiated. Studies show that those with low incomes
     patronize local businesses more than those with higher incomes. In addition,
     growing companies seeking to expand facilities and the numbers of employees
     often have difficulty attracting workers, because there is no place for them to live or
     reliable transportation to and from work.

     Salt Lake City is experiencing tremendous residential growth with new homes and
     apartment buildings being constructed. Due to low vacancy rates and all-time
     high rental rates, the increase in housing costs is far outpacing incomes. Too many
     of our renters, both individuals and families, are spending more than half of their
     incomes on their housing costs that prohibits them providing other essentials
     such as transportation, health care, nutritious foods and vegetables, and recreation.
     Families and individuals living in poverty cannot find stable and affordable housing
     that would help them to start on the path to financial security. As the data proves,
     poverty has lifelong implications, not to mention that younger generations will
     most likely continue its detrimental cycle-- a cycle that may be most interrupted by
     housing stability.

     The city is in an affordable housing crisis and if growth projections are
     correct, it will not improve unless bold and strategic measures are developed
     and enacted. Solutions must include using zoning ordinance to provide a mix
     of housing types in an effort to relieve the pressure put upon existing housing,
     creating sustainable and significant funding sources, preventing and diverting low-
     income families from entering homelessness, and creating innovative housing for
     all income types.




48                                                                   Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      5. SNAPSHOT SALT LAKE CITY


      The home is the intersection of the core components of daily life, where economies
      meet the personal matters of the home. It is the place where budgets are laid out,
      crises are undergone or averted, meals are prepared, much needed rest is granted,
      Band-Aids and bikes are stored, and where life is shared and experienced. Housing
      is critically linked to many other important policy considerations, like education,
      health and transportation. These linkages create opportunities for a holistic view as
      well as potential to bring in non-traditional housing partners to make an impact.
      In an effort to focus the scope of this plan, data is used to understand how each of         LIBERTY CITYWALK
      these unique sectors interplays with the housing market and housing affordability.              APARTMENTS
                                                                                                    210 South 300 East
      Data is the key to understanding how our city is growing and developing, what                    Salt Lake City
      barriers and challenges exist when solving the affordable housing crisis, and how
      system design can create a more equitable place to live. This section will focus
                                                                                                    73 Affordable Units
                                                                                                       73 Total Units
      on the story the data shares about such growth and development, and how that
      affects the residents of the city.
                                                                                               Located just east of the
                                                                                               downtown business district,
      The basis of this plan is an understanding of the complexity of housing, the
                                                                                               Liberty CityWalk opened in
      affordability crisis, and the larger structural needs of a growing Capitol City. While   2010.
      the scale of available information is great, there are some key data sets that
      have been identified as critical to the development of the City’s housing plan:          In walking distance of TRAX
      first, determining the growth and changing demographics of the city; second,             and several bus lines, this fully
                                                                                               affordable apartment complex
      identifying the complexities of the housing market; and third, understanding the
                                                                                               received a loan in the amount
      needs and wants of the residents.
                                                                                               of $ 500,000 from Salt Lake
                                                                                               City’s Housing Trust Fund.
      A look inside Salt Lake City
                                                                                               Image: Cowboy Partners
      There is no doubt that Utah continues to grow at an unprecedented rate.
      Projections from the Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute validate a tremendous
      population growth ranging from 10 percent to 20 percent over a single decade as



Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                       49
                                                    a result of net in-migration and natural child birth increase. Utah, long known for
                                                    its “young” population will need to prepare not only for such growth, but the shift
                                                    in aging demographics. Salt Lake City is not exempt from such growth, in fact it
                                                    is the epitome of such growth having seen the largest increase in just the past 4
                                                    years. This growth opportunity is reflected through increased economic and job
                                                    availability, increased labor force, and additional diversity. Our vibrant city continues
     Salt Lake City Workforce
                                                    to attract people from all ages and backgrounds to build a life here in a place
                                                    known not only for its mountains, but also for its local businesses and its strong
                                                    communities.

                                                    Population growth trends are of particular interest to Salt Lake City and the
                                                    opportunities it provides should not be missed due to a lack of infrastructure,
                                                    housing, or job opportunities. The consequences of a lack of these elements can be
                                                    seen as in-commuter trends are analyzed:


Source: BBC Housing Market Study, 2016
                                                         “Salt Lake City has a very high proportion of in-commuters compared to peer
                                                         cities: 84 percent of Salt Lake City jobs are held by in-commuters (up from
                                                         82% in 2011), compared to 57 percent in Boise and 71 percent in Denver. The
                                                         city’s in-commuting population will continue to grow if job growth exceeds
                                                         household growth in the city.”


     Salt Lake City Household Composition, 2014                              Consideration must be given for creating opportunities
                                                                             to attract people to live where they work. Such high rates
       Married couples                                                       of commuters significantly deteriorates air quality and
       without children                                                      adds unnecessary strain on city resources when daytime
                                                                             population increases by nearly 60 percent.
                                                         Married couples
                                                         with children
                                                                             While prediction of growth is valuable for planning, it is
                                TOTAL                                        also necessary to understand current needs in the Capitol
                              HOUSEHOLDS
One-person                                                 Single-parent     City. To date, 191,000 people call Salt Lake City their home.
                                  75,923
households                                                 households        The city has had an average growth rate of 5 percent
                                                      Other family           since the year 2000, seeing the majority of that growth
                                                      households             in recent years. Today, 52 percent of this population are
                                           Multi-person                      families, 7 percent are single parents (the large majority of
                                           households
                                                                             which are single mothers), and 35 percent are made up of
                                                                             racially and ethnically diverse households. An aggressive
     Nearly two-thirds of all households in Salt Lake
       City are composed of one or two people.                               growth rate promises a future with a robust labor force,

                                  Source: BBC Housing Market Study, 2016     diverse communities, and a strong economy, however
                                                                            it will also demand new types of housing, community
                                                                            amenities like fresh food and libraries, and spaces to
                                                                            bring talent and art alive.




50                                                                                                                   Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      With this promise of growth there are three main demographic areas that have
      shifted over the past four years and will be the cornerstone of future development          Salt Lake City Residents
                                                                                                        by Age, 2014
      and community composition.

           1. Post-college aged Millennials (ages 25-35)

           2. Aging Population (esp. Baby Boomers that are entering senior status)

           3. Communities of Color (continue to account for the largest share of
           population growth and are most geographically segregated)

      The Millennial population, while influential throughout the country, are particularly
                                                                                               Nearly 4 of every 10 Salt
      abundant in Salt Lake City. This population exceeds peer cities and primarily lives in   Lake City residents is an
      Central City, University neighborhoods, and Sugar House. Not surprisingly however        adult millenial (between 18
                                                                                               and 34 years old).
      the existing housing is not meeting their needs.
                                                                                               Source: BBC Housing Market Study,
              “The Salt Lake City metro area ranks second among all large metropolitan         2016

              areas (those with at least one million residents) for the most Millennials as
              a proportion of the population—behind only Austin, Texas. The city itself
              has a higher proportion of Millennials and stronger millennial growth than
              the country, even when excluding college students. Twenty-one percent
              of Salt Lake City’s population is post-college aged Millennials—higher
              than peer cities such as Boise and Portland, and on par with popular
              millennial cities such as Austin and Denver. Homeownership rates among
              this age group were relatively low (21%), in line with the tenure choices of
              Millennials in other cities.” (BBC Housing Market Study, 2016).

      This unique population is demanding a new way of living, preferring walkable
      communities with access to transit, looking for vibrant cultural and recreational
      opportunities, and open to smaller living spaces. In return, such a population
      continues to add to the economic health and growth of the economy and become
      vested residents that care for and enrich the community. To date, the supply of
      housing options that meet the housing preferences of this population has
      been limited. This reduces the likelihood that this population can remain
      local and have long-term stability.

      Conversely, Salt Lake’s aging population while not surpassing peer cities continues
      to grow at a noteworthy rate; those ages 45 years and older make up about 30
      percent of the population. These households generally live on the Upper East Side,
      Avenues, and City Creek Canyon. This population has legacies in their communities,
      raised families in a single home for decades, built up their network, and shaped the
      culture of their neighborhoods. However, without accommodating their changing



Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                       51
                                  extremely low-income seniors
                                     and people with disabilities
                                                                           Affordable rent & utilities: <$400/mo.
                                 =< $16,000 per year, poverty level

                                     <30% AMI
                                                                           People 65 years and older, People with disabilities, People
                                                                           who live on a fixed income such as social security



                                             Low-Wage Workers               Affordable rent: $420 - $635/mo.
                              $ 16,640 to $ 25,300 per year for an          Affordable home: <$175,000
                                                        individual          Childcare Provider, Veterinary Assistant, Ski Patrol, Cashier,

                           30-50% AMI                                       Visual/Performance Artist, Custodian, Fast Food Cook, Hotel
                                                                            Clerk


                                                                            Affordable rent: $900 - $1,445/mo.
                                    Low-Income Families                     Affordable home: $175,000 - $200,000
           $ 36,100 TO $ 57,750 per year for a family of four
                                                                            Home Health Aide, Accounting Clerk, Legal Secretary,

                          50-80% AMI                                        Physical Therapy Assistant, Truck Drivers, Flight Attendant,
                                                                            Automotive Mechanic, Kindergarten Teacher



                                Moderate-Income Families                    Affordable rent: $1,445 - $1,805/mo.
             $ 57,800 TO $ 72,200 per year for a family of four             Affordable home: $200,000 - $255,000

                       80-100% AMI                                          Special Education Teacher, Graphic Designer, Electrician,
                                                                            Sales Representative, Chef, Chiropractor, Social Worker



                                     High-Income Families                   Affordable rent: $2,000 - $2,700/mo.
            $ 86,600 TO $ 108,000 per year for a family of four             Affordable home: $300,000 - $400,000

                  120-150% AMI                                              Chemist, Electrical Engineer, Human Resources Manager,
                                                                            Nurse Practitioner, Attorney, Dentist, IT Manager



                                               needs, such as increased accessibility, smaller homes within their current area, and
                                               increased access to transit, Salt Lake City may find itself losing many of those who
                                               have helped create a strong community fabric.

                                               Lastly, as growth is being considered it cannot be done without recognition
                                               of the contribution of racially and ethnically diverse residents. Today the
                                               minority population makes up about 35 percent of total Salt Lake City residents
                                               with 21 percent of the total population identifying as Latino. This population is
                                               primarily responsible for all the population growth in the last decade and continues
                                               to be the largest contributor to new birth growth. This mimics the national trend
                                               of metropolitan areas slowly becoming “minority majority” communities – which
                                               is predicted for Salt Lake City by the year 2042. Salt Lake’s current demographic
An Envision Utah survey reported that 78% of
Utahns supported mixing housing types in       distribution of this population depicts a very segregated picture. The majority of the
their neighborhood. (Image: VODA)              minority population currently lives within the Westside Master Plan geographic area
                                               and in general west of Interstate 15. These areas also have a deficit of traditional



52                                                                                                              Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      opportunities, such as highly rated schools, access to fresh food, quality medical
      care, and transit. This has several implications for a growing city as it prevents it       SLC WORKFORCE
      from enriching all communities with the assets, art, language, entrepreneurship,
                                                                                                  Top 10 Industries &
      and unique heritages of non-white communities. It also limits access to opportunity         Average Annual Wage
      for the largest growing population in the city, thus creating a poor foundation for         1. Health and Social Services
      success in health, education, and income mobility.
                                                                                                          ▪▪ $ 43,419 (60% AMI)

      Each of the above-mentioned populations are growing and have housing needs                  2. Manufacturing
      that are not currently being met. Markedly, the difference of where these three                     ▪▪ $ 58,279 (81% AMI)
      distinct populations (Millennials, Aging, and Communities of Color) are living              3. Public Administration
      speaks to a myriad of issues. Primarily, aging populations living in high-resource                  ▪▪ $47,439 (66% AMI)
      and high-income communities while many minorities continue to be concentrated
                                                                                                  4. Professional Services
      in areas with higher rates of poverty. Certainly, income and life cycle plays a role --
                                                                                                          ▪▪ $ 73,341(102% AMI)
      intuitively an older adult presumably may afford more affluent areas while younger
      populations are at the will of the market. However, there is notable inequity when          5. Hospitality

      looking to where our more diverse communities live. In the context of this report, it               ▪▪ $ 17,067 (24 % AMI)
      is clear that racial and ethnic barriers exist, preventing career mobility and limiting     6. Retail Trade
      the access to opportunity through the mere geography of housing. However, in                        ▪▪ $ 33,359 (46% AMI)
      the context of Salt Lake City’s anticipated growth it is also clear that there are
                                                                                                  7. Transportation and
      not enough housing types or housing affordability to sustain the demand                     Warehousing
      from each of these populations. Our current neighborhoods are not equipped                          ▪▪ $ 46,531 (64% AMI)
      to serve the needs of our growing and evolving population. Therefore, it will be
                                                                                                  8. Finance and Insurance
      critical that there is a focus on land-use reform that can integrate the needs of
                                                                                                          ▪▪ $ 69,872 (97% AMI)
      each growing population into the now homogenous design of neighborhoods
                                                                                                  9. Admin and Waste Services
      and there is demonstrable support for such a shift. According to an Envision Utah
      survey, 78 percent of Utahns want communities that include a full mix of housing                    ▪▪ $ 32, 455 (45% AMI)
      types (including small lot detached homes, townhomes, condos, and apartments)               10. Wholesale Trade
      that match the affordability profile of residents. Furthermore, Utah residents are                  ▪▪ $ 65,700 (91% AMI)
      willing to allow more housing types in more communities in order to achieve this
      goal.                                                                                     Source: BBC Housing Market Study, 2016


      These preferences are in line with national trends favoring the development of
      “Missing Middle” housing types, which bridge the product gap between large-
      lot single-family homes and large apartment or condo structures. An increase in
      diverse ownership products—in terms of structure, type, and price-point—could
      help the city attract and retain workers and residents in the city, as well as increase
      ownership rates for disadvantaged populations.




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                             53
                                         Living and Thriving

                                         Considering the demographic and population growth described above, it becomes
                                         clear that an in-depth understanding of the housing market is absolutely necessary
                                         as plans are created, zoning is modified, and racial and income segregation is
                                         addressed. Not only is it necessary to shift how land-use is regulated and
                                         housing is built in order to allow more housing and opportunity throughout
                                         the city, it is also necessary to understand who in the city is most under
                                         served in the market and what factors influence affordability. In 2016, the
Salt Lake City Household Income
        Distribution, 2014               Housing and Neighborhood Development Division of Salt Lake City worked with
                                         BBC Research to produce the “Housing Market Update” to help understand the
                                         challenges facing low-income families and specifically the barriers to housing
                                         within the city. Below is a highlight of the most significant barriers to meeting the
                                         housing needs of Salt Lake City’s residents.


                                         Income

                                         The area median income for residents in Salt Lake City is nearly $20,000 less than
                                         that of the County as a whole, holding at $46,711. In addition, only two of the five
                                         largest employment industries in Salt Lake City pay wages high enough to afford
                                         the city’s median home price of $271,000 , thus it may be difficult for households
                                         earning their income in those (or other) industries to afford to buy a home on a
     Lower      Middle      Upper        single income, requiring both adults in the household to work. While overall there is
     Income     Income      Income
                                         some growth in income (8%) over the last few years, it was not significant enough
Source: BBC Housing Market Study, 2016
                                         to keep up with market inflation. There is also a discrepancy in income gain among
                                         renters and owners. Owners experienced income growth at twice that of renters
                                         and the gap in income between these two populations has widened dramatically
                                         in the past five years. Without consistent increase in wages that match the increase
                                         in market inflation many of Salt Lake’s low and moderate income households
                                         will be pushed out of the city creating additional financial burdens, decrease in
                                         opportunity, increase of in-commuters, and a great loss of mixed-income and
                                         diverse neighborhoods. This is intensified as single parent families and minority
                                         households may have some of the greatest housing needs, as they are more likely
                                         than other households to live in poverty. Since it is unlikely wages will increase
                                         – especially for those making $20,000 per year (or 40% AMI), Salt Lake City must
                                         consider alternative methods for stabilizing this population and creating access to
                                         safe housing.


                                         Housing Stock

                                         A key challenge that is unique to this market is the unusual age and type of
                                         existing housing stock. About half of the housing is single-family detached, which


54                                                                                                      Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      consumes large lots and is generally out of reach for many low-income households
      and the other half consists primarily of apartments, duplexes, and condos. However,
      the vast majority of rental units (80%) has only two bedrooms thus amplifying
      both the need for new units, but also increased affordability for families that are
      renting. While structure (type) and availability (# of units) are clearly underserving
      renters and owners, the age and condition of units deepens the complexity of
      serving the general market’s needs. The majority of our city’s housing stock was
      built before 1940 indicating that chances of dilapidation, blight, and unsafe
      conditions may exist, increasing the likelihood of obsolescence, dilapidation,
      blight and unsafe conditions. In fact, nearly 1,000 units lack key facilities such
      as plumbing or complete kitchens. These issues demonstrate that preservation,
                                                                                               Nearly one-half of all
      adaptive re-use, and energy efficiency will need to be addressed as this plan            renters in Salt Lake City are
      explores how to best leverage existing structures for long term affordability and        cost-burdened, and nearly
                                                                                               one-quarter are extremely
      increased density.                                                                       cost-burdened.

                                                                                               Source: BBC Housing Market Study,
      Rental Market                                                                            2016

      There is currently a “housing boom” in Utah’s Capitol City. Most residents have
      experienced this through either a gain in equity; or on the other end of the
      spectrum a dramatic increase in rent resulting in displacement or increased
      housing cost burden. These experiences are also clear in the data. Average rents
      along the Wasatch Front reached an all-time high in 2016, and rents increased
      26 percent in the five-year period between 2011 and 2016 . Although Salt Lake
      City is in the midst of an unprecedented building boom, it has yet to keep pace
      with the rising numbers of people who want to call the city home. Rising rents
      and low vacancy rates of 2 percent are driving more and more city residents to
      either seek housing elsewhere, or live burdened with housing costs that exceed
                                                                                               Wage Increase vs. Home Sale
      30 percent, and in some cases, more than 50 percent, of their household income.                 Price Increase
      According to recent U.S. Census data, 49 percent of all renters in Salt Lake City are
                                                                                                         2011-2014
      cost-burdened, and 24 percent are extremely cost burdened. For those low-income
      families and workers who are unable to move outside the city limits (where rents
      also continue to rise), or who are unable to spend an increasing share of their
      wages on rent, this housing crisis often creates a direct route into homelessness.


      Homeownership

      Homeownership is not exempt from the housing boom nor are those who
      desire to purchase a home exempt from feeling the market exclusion of
      such an opportunity. According to the 2016 Housing Market Study Update BBC                 Increase in homeowner
      Research shows that home sale prices increased 33 percent between 2011 and                 wages
      2014, while homeowner wages increased only 8 percent. This steep rise in prices            Increase in home sale prices



Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                       55
                                               has created a market in which most for-sale homes are only affordable for those
                                               in the high-income bracket. This is in direct conflict with the opportunity to retain
                                               more Millennials and first time home-buyers. Access to homeownership is often
                                               cited as key to community engagement and stability. Currently, homeownership is
                                               inaccessible to those making less than 80 percent area median income and current
                                               programs, while creating access through subsidies, generally lose affordability after
                                               a few years thus only serving a portion of those in need.


                                               Transportation
      Monthly Cost Burden of
     Housing + Transportation                  As mentioned previously, the home is the intersection of life and transportation.
                                               Access to transit can either be the key to housing stability or the component that
                                               creates instability. This is why it is recommended that the cost of housing
                                               and transportation for a household should not exceed 45 percent of the
                                               household’s monthly budget. The cost of owning a car can have a dramatic
              100% AMI                         impact on household income and purchasing power, especially for those at 80
              Household
                                               percent AMI and below. In 2013, Utah Business noted that the average annual cost
                                               of owning a car in Utah was $9,122. This amount makes up nearly 31 percent of a
                                               family’s income at $30,000 per year, at such rates the loss of this car or any other
                                               cost that comes up could send a family into crisis.

                                               For a household earning 100 percent AMI in Salt Lake City, assuming 30 percent of
                                               income goes to housing, the cost of owning two cars would consume 25 percent
                                               of household income. The cost of two cars rises to 63 percent of household
               40% AMI                         income at 40 percent AMI, again assuming 30 percent of income for housing.
              Household                        Even more striking, while in this scenario a 100 percent AMI household would have
                                               nearly half of its total income remaining for discretionary spending after meeting
                                               housing and transportation costs, a 40 percent AMI household would have only 7
                                               percent total income remaining – or $165 – to meet all its other monthly expenses.
        Housing           Costs for 2          For a family at 40 percent AMI, reducing to one car would produce a monthly gain
        Costs             Cars                 in discretionary income of 31 percent, or $760. If that same household lives in a
        Remaining budget                       transit-rich neighborhood and is able to forgo car ownership and uses a reasonable
With an average annual cost in Utah of more    15 percent of income for transportation, their funds available for discretionary
than $18,000 to own and operate two cars       spending would increase to 55 percent of total income, or $ 1,324 per month. The
per household, the option of transit access
can have a major impact on the discretionary   affordable housing crisis cannot be addressed without exploring solutions in which
income of a cost burdened household.           transportation access and cost are considered.
(Source: Utah Business)

                                               Collaboration

                                               The housing market is influenced by many factors and a collaborative approach
                                               across sectors is needed to make an impact on stability and availability. Currently




56                                                                                                             Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      there is no infrastructure of programs, intentional alignment, or resource availability   What were the reasons Salt Lake
      that would create a path to comprehensive housing change. Such change                     City renters did not buy a home?
      should occur at every level of the housing development pipeline, including those
      experiencing the housing crisis, those building housing, and to those who are
      creating statewide housing policy. This effort is intended to work with existing
      advocates, local governments, and residents. Without the input and expertise of all
      communities the stark challenge that lies ahead cannot be met with the solutions
      it needs.

      Citizen Voices
                                                                                                    Could not afford location
      Contemplating and understanding data are key to any plan, however, it is only
      within the context of the community that data can truly be leveraged and                      No desirable home in location
      understood. In the creation of this plan it was a priority to understand the views,           No desirable type of home
      desires, and needs of Salt Lake City’s unique populations. To that end a housing
      choice survey was conducted: Salt Lake Live Work Survey. This was launched in
      late summer 2016 and garnered tremendous response (over 1,400 respondents);
      perhaps the largest survey response in recent record. The incredible response rate
      included about 15 percent of in-commuter responses adding significant context
      for those who work in the city, but do not live here either by choice or market
      circumstance. Since housing affects every income and race, a key outreach strategy
      was to deliver the survey in ways that accommodated populations that consistently
      are under served or misrepresented, this meant that both an online survey was
      available as well as a paper survey that was distributed at community events
      primarily throughout the west side of the city. A full summary can be found in the
      appendix. Below are several highlights that reflect much of what is laid out in the
      data above – however, a story takes shape telling of the opportunity that exists for
      the entire city through increased housing options and affordability.                        52% of in-commuters
             ▪▪ Nearly two-thirds of renters have wanted to buy a home in the past five           would consider moving
                                                                                                  to Salt Lake City if housing
                years, and most wanted to buy in Salt Lake City.
                                                                                                  were more affordable.
             ▪▪ Thirty percent of residents plan to move in the next 5 years in order to buy
                a home (44%) or because they want a bigger home (42%).
             ▪▪ Respondents named two primary reasons for not purchasing a home
                in Salt Lake City: 1) Could not find an affordable home in the preferred
                location (31%); and 2) couldn’t afford the down payment or didn’t have
                enough saved for a down payment (51%).
             ▪▪ Residents report spending about $1,100 - $1,153 per month on rent and
                $1,489 - $1,555 on monthly mortgage payments.
             ▪▪ Nearly one in five residents report finding additional employment and 12
                percent have friends or relatives living with them in order to support their
                housing cost or better described as housing burden.




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                     57
If you spent 25% less per month                   ▪▪ Thirteen percent of residents went without needed medication/
   on housing, how would you                         healthcare/dental care and 9 percent reduced their clothing budget in
     spend that extra money?                         order to meet housing costs.
                                                  ▪▪ Nearly one in ten survey respondents whose home or apartment needs
                                                     repairs believe their home is unsafe to live in (4% of respondents overall).
                                                  ▪▪ Top things residents would change about their neighborhood if they
                                                     could: safer (29%); neighbors would do a better job keeping up their
                                                     homes (23%); fewer apartments/rentals (18%); and more affordable homes
                                                     to purchase in my neighborhood (14%).
                                                  ▪▪ The majority of residents (more than 70%) reported being truly satisfied
                                                     with both their housing and their neighborhood.
                                                  ▪▪ In-commuters who previously lived in the city moved for a bigger home
                                                     (23%) and because they could not afford to buy in Salt Lake City (17%).
                                                  ▪▪ 52 percent of in-commuters would consider relocating to Salt Lake City if
                                                     housing were more affordable.
                                                  ▪▪ Affordability was the primary reason in-commuters chose their current
SLC Residents      In-Commuters                      home (32%), followed by: having a lot of space inside their home (13%)
                                                     and outside their home (13%); safety (8%); and owning rather than renting
        Save for retirement                          (7%).
        Save for emergencies
                                           This survey data is highly reflective of the data outlined throughout this plan,
        Save for down payment
                                           however, there are several aspects that add additional details to the numbers.
        on house
                                           Key among these is that residents truly enjoy the environment in which they live,
                                           namely the access to amenities, art, culture, and proximity to work. In addition, the
                                           housing market strain is evident as many indicated that they may or would
                                           have to leave to achieve their desired housing model. This is directly correlated
                                           to the lack of housing options that exists currently. Without additional development
                                           of new and innovative products Salt Lake’s current and future residents will be
                                           forced to look elsewhere for their desired livability.


                  Total Survey Responses              Online Survey Responses                       Paper Survey Responses




                   SLC             In-                    SLC             In-                          SLC          In-
                Residents       Commuters              Residents       Commuters                    Residents    Commuters


58                                                                                                         Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
            4TH SOUTH TRANSIT-ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT                         The development will include at least 40 micro-units
                    (BARNES BANK PROPERTY)                                 (between 250 and 500 square feet) with 40% AMI maximum
                                                                           affordable rent, as well as mixed income housing, with at
                                                                           least 20% of the units reserved for households making 60%
                                                                           AMI or less.

                                                                           A business incubator with space for offices and short-term
                                                                           retail is also included, as well as long-term ground floor
                                                                           retail space designed to activate the public realm along
        In January 2017, Salt Lake City launched a request for             surrounding streets. Urban solutions such as shared parking,
        proposals to develop the 4th South Transit-Oriented                alternative transportation, public art, and gathering places,
        Development at 320 East 400 South and 340 East 400 South,          will play a critical role, as will sustainable approaches to
        in order to further innovative approaches to affordable
                                                                           building, energy use, and recycling.
        housing.



      Affordability needs are acute within the survey results and are even more
      prominent when paper survey respondent results were reviewed separately from
      the online respondents. Paper survey respondents were 70 percent Latino and
      primarily from traditionally under served communities. Overall, affordability of
      homes and rental units are a primary concern, but the cost burden became more
      evident when rental and homeownership monthly payments were reviewed.
      For many of those that responded via the paper survey it was noted that their
      mortgage was slightly lower which may reflect the housing being concentrated in
      lower income areas of the city, again, reiterating the need for increased choice and
      access. Not surprisingly this population also reported incidents of discrimination
      for about 50 percent of the respondents; discrimination was directly linked to race,
      immigration status, or ethnicity (primarily Latino). This information was in direct
      contrast to the online respondents who felt the primary reason for discrimination
      was the ownership of a pet.

      Affordable housing is not just about the numbers, it is about the lives affected by
      sky-rocketing housing prices, poor living conditions, exclusion of basic needs, and
      the daily choice of food versus rent, and as Matthew Desmond points out in his
      book “Evicted” – ‘the rent always eats first’. Salt Lake City does not disregard these
      numbers, but is constantly and profoundly aware of the many faces they reflect and
      that so many of those are children. As this plan progresses, recognizing the failure
      of the market to accommodate the changing needs of this community is key to
      also identifying solutions. While the market challenges affect everyone in the city a
      closer look at those most under served merits additional review so that this can be
      a city for everyone.




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                                                           59
60   Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      6. CONCLUSION


      Salt Lake City is in the beginning of a systemic housing crisis. The goals,
      objectives, and strategies outlined in this plan are intended to guide the
      modernization of public policy and the deployment of resources that are needed
      to address the crisis. This effort will require that the City examine its own processes
      and procedures to ensure that it is functioning at the highest, most efficient levels.
      If administrative systems do not improve to match the goals established here, they
      could hinder the successful implementation of this plan.

      This is a five-year plan. While its duration is relatively short, the speed of markets,
      innovation, and demographic change, warrant regular review and potential course
      corrections as needed. As part of the execution of this plan, the City will commit to
      accountability and transparency toward achieving its goals and will create a work
      plan to establish expectations and chart the city’s progress.

      Finally, Salt Lake City must be a place for a growing diverse population
      to find housing opportunities that are safe, secure, and enrich lives and
      communities. The execution of this plan is a fulfillment of Salt Lake City’s legacy
      as a welcoming community that is committed to equity and access to affordable
      housing for all of its residents.




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022                                                                    61
Housing Plan Process & Timeline
                                                         2015
                                                                Plan Salt Lake Adopted
                                                                Dec 2015
                                     Housing Policy Adopted
                                                 March 2016
                                                                Housing Finance Group Completed
                                                                Mar 2016
                                   BBC Market Study Update
                                                    Apr 2016

                 Salt Lake Live Work Survey (1,916 Responses)   West Side Public Outreach (5 Events)
                                              Aug-Sept 2016     Sep-Nov 2016

                          Housing Overview Council Briefing
                                                   Sep 2016
                                                                Central City/East Side Public Outreach (11 Events)
                                                                Oct 2016
                     Housing Finance Group Council Briefing
                                                   Oct 2016
                                                                St. Vincent de Paul Housing Workshop
                                                                Nov 2016
                              RDA Board Housing Discussion
                                                   Dec 2016




                           Launch Barnes Bank Property RFP      Written Briefing on Housing Plan to Council
                                                   Jan 2017     Feb 2017



                                        Housing Plan Launch
                                                   Feb 2017
                                                                Planning Commission Briefing
                                                                March 2017

                     Housing Plan Public Information Session
                                            Feb/March 2017

                                                                Draft Housing Plan Presentation to Council
                                                                Spring 2017
              Adoption of Final Housing Plan December 2017



                                                                5 Years of Strategic
                                                                Housing Policy Implementation



                                                         2022
62                                                                                                     Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
      APPENDIX A: HOUSING MARKET STUDY
      BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING 2016




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
Housing Market Update
Salt Lake City Corporation




FINAL REPORT
Final Report
November 22, 2016




Housing Market Update

Prepared for
Salt Lake City Corporation
Housing and Neighborhood Development
451 South State Street
Room 406
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114
www.slcgov.com/hand

Prepared by
BBC Research & Consulting
1999 Broadway, Suite 2200
Denver, Colorado 80202-9750
303.321.2547 fax 303.399.0448
www.bbcresearch.com
bbc@bbcresearch.com
Table of Contents

ES. Executive Summary
     What Were the Primary Demographic Changes Between 2000 and 2014? ........................... ES–1
     How Affordable is Salt Lake City Housing? .............................................................................. ES–2
     What Types of Households are most likely to need Affordable Housing? .............................. ES–3
     Does Salt Lake City’s Housing Stock Accommodate Future Housing Needs? ......................... ES–4

I.   Community Profile
     Demographic Overview .............................................................................................................. I–2
     Economic Indicators ................................................................................................................. I–18


II. Income Profile
     Income and Poverty .................................................................................................................. II–1
     Income by Tenure...................................................................................................................... II–7
     Cost Burden ............................................................................................................................... II–8


III. Housing Profile and Affordability
     Existing Housing Stock .............................................................................................................. III–1
     Profile of Renters and Owners ................................................................................................. III–4
     Housing Cost and Affordability ................................................................................................. III–8

IV. Market Mismatches and Gaps
     Rental Gaps ............................................................................................................................. IV–1
     Gaps in the For Sale Market .................................................................................................... IV–3
     What Can Workers Afford? ..................................................................................................... IV–6




BBC RESEARCH & C ONSULTING                                                                                                                          i
Executive Summary
Housing Market Update
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.
Housing Market Update
In 2013 BBC Research & Consulting (BBC) conducted housing market study for Salt Lake City
Corporation, with a focus on affordable housing needs. This report provides an update to key
demographic indicators from that market study and an in-depth analysis of housing affordability
in Salt Lake City. This report is organized around the following sections:

   Section I (Community Profile) provides context for the housing analysis. It reviews
    population growth, changing demographics, in-commuting, and employment.

   Section II (Income Profile) analyzes resident incomes through the lens of housing
    affordability. The analysis evaluates distribution of households by income group, incomes
    of renters and owners and the number and proportion of cost burdened households.

   Section III (Housing Profile and Affordability) provides an overview of the housing stock in
    the city in terms of type, age and cost, both for rental and for-sale housing. This section also
    discusses key differences between renters and owners and introduces the study’s analysis
    of affordability.

   Section IV (Market Mismatches) compares the cost of rental and for sale housing at various
    price points with resident demand for housing, using income as a proxy. This modeling
    effort shows where “gaps” in housing provision exist—that is, where there are more
    households who need affordable housing than is supplied.

The Executive Summary highlights key findings from the analysis.

What Were the Primary Demographic Changes Between 2000 and 2014?
   In 2014, the Salt Lake City population was 191,000, up from 182,000 in 2000. The
    population growth rate increased between 2010 and 2014 relative to the previous decade.
    However, the growth rate among minority groups slowed between 2010 and 2014.

   As is typical in large metropolitan areas, households in the suburbs are more likely to be
    families than households in the city (76% compared to 52%). The proportion of households
    that are families declined between
    2000 and 2010 but held relatively
    constant between 2010 and 2014—
    both in the city and the county overall.
    Trends in the city and county were
    proportional, meaning the city does not
    seem to be losing a disproportionate
    proportion of families to the suburbs.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY, PAGE 1
     The Salt Lake City metro area ranks
      second among all large metros
      (those with at least 1,000,000
      residents) for the most millennials
      aged 25-34 as a proportion of the
      population—second only to Austin,
      Texas.1 The city itself has a higher
      proportion of millennials and
      stronger millennial growth than the
      county, even when excluding
      college students. Twenty-one
      percent of Salt Lake City’s
      population is post-college aged
      millennials (ages 25-34)—higher than peer cities such as Boise (14%) and Portland (19%)
      and on par with popular millennial cities such as Austin and Denver (both 22%).
      Homeownership rates among this age group are relatively low at 21%, in line with the
      tenure choices of Millennials in other cities.

     Salt Lake City has a very high proportion
      of in-commuters compared to peer
      cities: 84 percent of Salt Lake City jobs
      are held by in-commuters (up from 82%
      in 2011), compared to 57 percent in
      Boise and 71 percent in Denver. The
      city’s in-commuting population will
      continue to grow if job growth exceeds
      household growth in the city.

     Resident incomes in Salt Lake City increased at about the same rate as the county overall
      (both 12%) between 2011 and 2014. Owners experienced higher percentage gains in
      median income than renters (8% compared to 4%). However, income increases were not
      enough to keep pace with rising home prices and rents.

How Affordable is Salt Lake City Housing?
     Compared to surrounding communities, median rent in
      Salt Lake City is relatively low ($761) and median home
      value ($238,700) and median sale price ($255,000) are
      moderate.

     Both renters and owners lost purchasing power between
      2011 and 2014 (continuing the trend from 2000). That is,
      sale prices increased faster than owner incomes (33% vs.
      8%) and rent increased faster than renter incomes (8% vs
      4%).


1 http://www.headlightdata.com/news---media/millennials-large-metros.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                EXECUTIVE SUMMARY, PAGE 2
    Despite the decline in renter purchasing power, the shortage of rentals priced below $500
     narrowed slightly between 2011 and 2014—falling from 8,200 units to 7,500 units. That
     decrease in need is primarily related to an increase in renter incomes between 2011 and
     2014, which resulted in fewer renters earning less than $20,000 per year.




    The for sale gaps analysis shows the Salt Lake City market to be relatively affordable for
     renters earning more than $35,000 per year that may wish to purchase a home. For renters
     earning less than $35,000 just 14 percent of homes are affordable, most of which are
     condos. For renters earning $50,000 per year 37 percent of homes are affordable and for
     those earning $75,000 per year two-thirds of all homes on the market are affordable.

    The average Salt Lake City worker—earning $48,290 per year—could afford 35 percent of
     the homes sold in 2014/15. The same worker could afford just 30 percent of the homes in
     the balance of the county. Affordable homes in the balance of the county are slightly newer
     and slightly larger than affordable homes in the city but overall

What types of households are most likely to need affordable housing?
Overall, renters in Salt Lake City have greater need than owners: the rental affordability gap is
higher than the owner affordability gap and renters are more likely to be cost-burdened than
owners (49% of renters and 22% of owners spend more than 30% of their income on housing).

Among renters, single parent families and minority households may have some of the greatest
housing needs as they are more likely than other households to live in poverty; both also have
low rates of homeownership.

Renter needs include affordability for first-time homebuyers. Younger residents (including adult
millennials) and Salt Lake City workers in many industries face challenges in finding an
affordable home to purchase in the city. Only two of the five largest employment industries in
Salt Lake City have wages high enough to afford the city’s median home price, thus it may be
difficult for households with a worker in those (or other) industries to afford to buy a home on a
single income, requiring both adults in the household to work.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                EXECUTIVE SUMMARY, PAGE 3
Does Salt Lake City’s housing stock accommodate future housing needs?
With rental vacancy rates at historic
lows, the city needs a larger supply of                   Salt Lake City’s greatest housing needs
rentals to accommodate demand; and                        are similar to those identified in the last
to address the needs of lower income                      market study:
renters it is important that the rental
stock priced below $500 increase
                                                          1) A shortage of 7,500 rental units to
(either through market production or
                                                               meet the affordability needs of the
subsidy or both).                                              city’s lowest income renters (those
                                                               earning $20,000 and less per year).
However, the city should also focus on                         Some of these households may be
facilitating the development of                                students who have potential for
ownership stock to accommodate the                             increased future earnings but many
preferences of in-commuter, millennial                         of these households are low income
and/or minority homebuyers.                                    families, persons with disabilities,
According to the Envision Utah survey,                         and lower wage workers.
78 percent of Utahns want
communities that include a full mix of
housing types (including small lot
                                                          2) Additional residential housing
                                                               product to entice in-commuters to
detached homes, townhomes, condos
                                                               relocate to the city, encourage
and apartments) that match the
                                                               current residents—particularly
affordability profile of residents.
                                                               millennials—to remain in the city
Furthermore, Utah residents are
                                                               and provide more homeownership
willing to allow more housing types in
                                                               opportunities for minority renters.
more communities in order to achieve
that goal.2

These preferences are in line with national trends favoring the development of “Missing Middle”
housing types which bridge the product gap between large-lot single family homes and large
apartment or condo structures. Salt Lake City does have a relatively high proportion of diverse
housing stock—about half of Salt Lake City’s stock is single family detached and half is attached
housing (apartments, condos, townhomes, etc.). However, most of the city’s attached stock is
occupied by renters. An increase in diverse ownership products—in terms of structure type and
price-point—could help the city attract and retain workers and residents in the city, as well as
increase ownership rates for disadvantaged populations.




2 http://envisionutah.org/projects/your-utah-your-future/item/346-results




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                           EXECUTIVE SUMMARY, PAGE 4
SECTION I.
Community Profile
SECTION I.
Community Profile
This section provides a general overview of Salt Lake City’s demographic and economic
environment to set the context for the housing market analysis. Key findings from this section
include:

    Salt Lake City is currently home to about 191,000 people living in 75,923 households. The
     city population comprises 17 percent of the county population and 6 percent of the state.

    Overall, the rate of population growth increased between 2010 and 2014, relative to the
     rate between 2000 and 2010. However, the growth rate among minority groups slowed
     between 2010 and 2014.

    Post-college aged millennials (ages 25-34) account for 21 percent of the Salt Lake City
     population—higher than peer cities such as Boise (14%) and Portland (19%) and on par
     with popular millennial cities such as Austin and Denver (both 22%).

    In 2014, 10 percent of Salt Lake City residents were seniors. Although the population of Salt
     Lake City is aging, forecasts suggest that the city is less likely to experience a significant
     “graying” of the population than other peer cities and the nation as a whole.

    As is typical in large metropolitan areas, households in the suburbs are more likely to be
     families than households in the city (76% compared to 52%). However, that gap does not
     appear to be widening over time; in other words, the city does not seem to be losing a
     disproportionate proportion of families to the suburbs.

    Salt Lake City has a very high proportion of in-commuters compared to peer cities: only 16
     percent of Salt Lake City jobs are held by city residents, compared to 43 percent in Boise
     and 29 percent in Denver.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                           SECTION I, PAGE 1
Demographic Overview
Salt Lake City is home to 190,873 people—17 percent of the county population and 6 percent of
the state population. The following demographic section presents trends and statistics for the
residents of Salt Lake City in terms of population growth, household size and composition, age,
race and ethnicity, disability and education.

Population growth. Between 2000 and 2010, the population of Salt Lake City increased from
about 182,000 to about 186,000—a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 0.3 percent.
Population growth was faster between 2010 and 2014 with a CAGR of 0.6 percent, reaching
nearly 191,000 residents. According to the Governor’s Office of Management and Budget, Salt
Lake City is projected to have more aggressive growth over the next few years, reaching nearly
211,000 by 2020 (1.2% CAGR from 2010).

Figure I-1.
                                                                                                 CAGR
Population, Salt Lake
City, Surrounding                                        2000        2010        2014       2000-10 2010-14
Counties and State,
2000-2014                            Utah               2,233,169   2,763,885   2,942,902    2.2%    1.6%
                                     Salt Lake County     898,387   1,029,655   1,091,742    1.4%    1.5%
Source:                              Utah County          368,536     516,564     540,425    3.4%    1.1%
2000 and 2010 Census, 2014 ACS and   Davis County         238,994     306,479     317,646    2.5%    0.9%
BBC Research & Consulting.
                                     Salt Lake City       181,743     186,440     190,873    0.3%    0.6%


Salt Lake County as a whole expanded its population by 15 percent between 2000 and 2010 and
another 6 percent between 2010 and 2014, largely due to suburban growth. The nearby cities of
West Jordan, South Jordan and Draper had growth rates exceeding 50 percent between 2000 and
2010. Figure I-2 displays population trends and forecasts for Salt Lake City, surrounding
municipalities and surrounding counties through 2030.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                     SECTION I, PAGE 2
Figure I-2.
Population Trends in Salt Lake City, Surrounding Communities and Surrounding Counties, 1980
through 2030




Note:   Population projections are conducted by the Governor’s Office of Management and Budget and use 2010 Census data as a baseline.
Source: Utah Population Estimates Committee of the Governor’s Office of Management and Budget Demographic and Economic Analysis and BBC
        Research & Consulting.


Despite Salt Lake City’s growing population, the county is experiencing slightly more out-
migration than in-migration – a net migration loss of just under 2,000 residents. The outbound
migration flow from the county is primarily due to residents moving to other counties within
Utah. The majority of outbound and inbound migration is from Davis and Utah Counties.

Household trends. According to the 2014 ACS, the 190,873 residents occupy 75,923
households in Salt Lake City. Of the 75,923 households, 52 percent are families, nearly half of
which include children—similar proportions to peer cities (Denver, Boise, Portland and Austin



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                 SECTION I, PAGE 3
range from 49% families to 59% families about half of which include children). Thirty-six
percent of householders in the city live alone; one in five of those living alone are seniors.

Approximately 7 percent of all Salt Lake City households are single parent households—2
percent are single fathers (1,512 households) and 5 percent are single mothers (4,104
households). Single parent households account for about 31 percent of all families with children
in the city, compared to 23 percent in the balance of the county (Salt Lake County excluding Salt
Lake City).

Figure I-3 displays household composition for Salt Lake City.

Figure I-3.
Household Composition,
Salt Lake City, 2014
Sources:
2014 American Community Survey and
BBC Research & Consulting.




Compared to surrounding suburban communities, Salt Lake City has a much lower proportion of
families—in the balance of the county 76 percent of households are families. While that type of
difference is typical for a large metropolitan area, an important question for central cities is
whether they are losing families to the suburbs. Between 2010 and 2014, family households as a
percent of all households remained relatively constant in both the city (53% in 2010 and 52% in
2014) and the suburbs (76% in both 2010 and 2014). Families with children accounted for
about one-quarter of all households in the city in both 2010 and 2014, compared to 39 percent
in the suburbs for both years. Based on these trends, it does not appear that the city is losing
existing families to the county.

Household size. Utah has the highest average household size in the nation and is the only state
where average household size is greater than three. Average household size in Salt Lake City is
2.45, lower than the state (3.16) and county (3.01) but higher than peer cities such as Denver
(2.30). Twenty-three percent of Salt Lake City households have four or more occupants
compared to 34 percent of households in the balance of the county.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                            SECTION I, PAGE 4
Age. Over one-third of the city’s population are adult millennials—aged 18 to 34. Middle aged
and older adults (between 35 and 64) account for another third of the city population. Twenty-
one percent of residents are children and 10 percent are seniors. Compared to the balance of the
county, the city has a smaller representation of children and a higher representation of adult
millennials.

Between 2000 and 2014, the median age of Salt Lake City increased only slightly, from 30 to 31.
Increases in median age were more pronounced in the county (29 to 32), the state (27 to 30) and
the nation (35 to 38). As the Baby Boomers age, increases in median age are expected and a
rising senior population is forecasted. That aging trend is evident in Salt Lake City, but to a lesser
extent than in the nation as a whole.

Figure I-4 compares Salt Lake City’s residents by age in 2000, 2010 and 2014. The balance of the
county’s and surrounding counties’ age profile is also included for comparison.

Figure I-4.
Age Profile, Salt Lake City, Balance of Salt Lake County and Surrounding Counties, 2000, 2010,
and 2014




Source: 2010 Census, 2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                             SECTION I, PAGE 5
Millennials and seniors are two populations of focus for housing planners, as many believe these
two groups will drive changes in housing demand over the coming decades.

     Millennials are aging into adulthood and their housing preferences are widely debated but
      most predictions expect millennials to seek out urban communities that offer alternative
      forms of transportation such as walking, biking and transit. They tend to form households
      later than previous generations and, so far, have lower homeownership rates than previous
      generations.1

     As baby boomers age into senior status, their housing preferences may also change in ways
      that could have substantial market impacts. Some will choose to downsize, often moving to
      attached housing in more urban areas or locations in close proximity to health or other
      amenities. Most seniors are likely to age in place but may need accessibility
      accommodations/modifications to their home. They may also require in-home services
      and/or better access to transit and health services.

As shown in the previous figure, Salt Lake City has a much higher proportion of adult millennials
(35%) than the balance of the county (24%).2 Post-college aged millennials (25-34) account for
21 percent of the city population—higher than peer cities such as Boise (14%) and Portland
(19%) and on par with popular millennial cities such as Austin and Denver (both 22%). Indeed a
recent study by Headlight Data showed that the Salt Lake City metro area as a whole ranked
second among all large metros (those with at least 1,000,000 residents) for the most millennials
as a proportion of the population—second only to Austin, Texas.3 The same report indicated that
the Salt Lake City metro area had one of the greatest decreases in millennials aged 25 to 34
between 2009 and 2014, dropping from 19 percent to 17 percent of the total population. This
was not true of the city, however: the proportion of millennials increased very slightly (.5
percentage points) over the same period.

In contrast, the senior population in Salt Lake City is lower than surrounding areas and lower
than the nation as a whole. Between 2000 and 2014, the proportion of the city’s population 45
and older increased from 28 percent to 30 percent. However, the senior subset of that
population (those aged 65 and older) actually decreased as a proportion of the total
population—from 11 percent to 10 percent. Aging was more pronounced in the balance of
county where the proportion of residents 45 and older increased from 26 percent to 31 percent
and the proportion of seniors increased from7 percent to 10 percent.

The following two maps present age characteristics by geography for Salt Lake City residents:
Figure I-5 displays the proportion of Census tract residents that are adult millennials (ages 18-
34) and Figure I-6 displays the proportions that are seniors.



1 In Salt Lake City, 21 percent of millennials aged 25 to 34 are homeowners, similar to peer cities’ millennials of the same age

(26% in Denver, 20% in Austin and 22% in Portland).
2 The Millennial generation includes persons ranging in age from about 15 to about 34. Adult Millennials are those aged 18 to

34 and post-college aged Millennials are aged 25 to 34.
3 http://www.headlightdata.com/news---media/millennials-large-metros




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                     SECTION I, PAGE 6
Figure I-5.
Percent of Census Tract Residents that are Adult Millennials, Salt Lake City 2014




Note:   The Census tract containing the Westside planning area extends outside the city limits and captures portions of north West Valley City.
Source: 2010-2014 ACS Census and BBC Research & Consulting.


Millennials are most likely to live downtown, in Central Community and near the university.
Portions of Sugar House also have a relatively high representation of millennials. Seniors are
more likely to live on the eastern side of the city, particularly in the City Creek Canyon, Avenues
and portions of the East Bench planning areas. These are also areas with relatively high housing
values and, as much, may be cost prohibitive for young families.

According to the Governor’s Office of Management and Budget population forecasts, by 2020,
one in 10 residents living in Salt Lake County will be 65 or older.4 Relative to out-of-state peer
communities, such as Denver, and the nation as a whole, forecasted growth in the Salt Lake
senior population is low. As such, Salt Lake is less likely to experience a significant “graying” of
the population. Even so, Salt Lake County’s population forecasts suggest there will be a decrease
in the proportion of the population under 40 and an increase in the proportion 40 or older—
particularly those aged 60 or older—between now and 2020. Such a shift can have significant
impact on housing preferences and service demands.



4 Projections by age were not available at the city level.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                      SECTION I, PAGE 7
Figure I-6.
Percent of Census Tract Residents that are Seniors, Salt Lake City 2014




Note:   The Census tract containing the Westside planning area extends outside the city limits and captures portions of north West Valley City.
Source: 2010-2014 ACS Census and BBC Research & Consulting.


Race and ethnicity. Sixty-five percent of Salt Lake City residents are non-Hispanic white; 35
percent belong to a minority group. About one in five (21%) are Hispanic, 6 percent are Asian
and 2 percent are African American. The county and the state are somewhat less diverse with
population distributions that are 28 and 21 percent minority respectively. Figure I-7on the next
page displays the population by race/ethnicity for Salt Lake City in 2000, 2010 and 2014.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                      SECTION I, PAGE 8
Figure I-7.
Race and Ethnicity, Salt Lake City, 2000, 2010 and 2014

                                                                      2000                            2010                            2014                  Growth 2000 to 2010               Growth 2010 to 2014
                                                             Number          Percent         Number          Percent         Number          Percent          Total          CAGR               Total          CAGR

  Total Population                                            181,743         100%            186,440         100%            190,873         100%               3%            0.3%                2%            0.6%

  Race and Ethnicity Combined
    All minority groups                                        53,366           29%             64,115          34%            66,008           35%             20%            1.9%                3%            0.7%
    Non-Hispanic white                                        128,377           71%           122,325           66%           124,865           65%             -5%           -0.5%                2%            0.5%

  Race Detail
        Black or African American                                3,433           2%              5,088           3%              3,363           2%             48%            4.0%              -34%           -9.8%
        American Indian and Alaska Native                        2,442           1%              2,316           1%              3,077           2%             -5%           -0.5%               33%            7.4%
        Asian                                                    6,579           4%              8,247           4%            10,684            6%             25%            2.3%               30%            6.7%
        Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander                         3,437           2%              3,776           2%              4,296           2%             10%            0.9%               14%            3.3%
        White                                                 143,933           79%           140,080           75%           137,726           72%             -3%           -0.3%               -2%           -0.4%
        Some other race                                        15,482            9%             20,036          11%            25,575           13%             29%            2.6%               28%            6.3%
        Two or more races                                        6,437           4%              6,897           4%              6,152           3%              7%            0.7%              -11%           -2.8%

  Ethnicity Detail
    Hispanic                                                   34,254           19%             41,637          22%            39,686           21%             22%            2.0%               -5%           -1.2%
    Non-Hispanic                                              147,489           81%           144,803           78%           151,187           79%             -2%           -0.2%                4%            1.1%

Note:      Census data on race and ethnic identification vary with how people choose to identify themselves. The U.S. Census Bureau treats race and ethnicity separately: the Bureau does not classify Hispanic/Latino as a race,
           but rather as an identification of origin and ethnicity. In 2000, 15,556 Hispanic respondents racially identified as white and 15,188 Hispanic respondents racially identified as Some other race. In 2014, 12,861
           Hispanic respondents racially identified as white and 25,030 Hispanic respondents racially identified as Some other race.
Source: 2000 Census, 2010 Census, 2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                                                                                                     SECTION I, PAGE 9
Between 2000 and 2010 all of Salt Lake City’s population growth was attributable to growth in
the minority population. During that time the non-Hispanic white population in the city
decreased by 5 percent while the minority population increased by 20 percent. Similar patterns
were evident in surrounding areas and peer cities.5

However, between 2010 and 2014, growth in the Salt Lake City minority population slowed
(0.7% CAGR between 2010 and 2014 compared to 1.9% CAGR between 2000 and 2010) and
growth in the non-Hispanic white population increased (0.5% CAGR between 2010 and 2014
compared to slight numerical decline between 2000 and 2010).

Figure I-8 provides a graphical representation of the racial/ethnic distribution of Salt Lake City
in 2000, 2010 and 2014. Despite the difference in growth rates between minorities and non-
Hispanic whites, changes in the overall distribution of the population were relatively small. The
minority population, as a proportion of total population, increased from 29 percent in 2000 to
34 percent in 2010 and 35 percent in 2014. The Hispanic share of the population increased from
19 percent in 2000 to 22 percent in 2010 but dropped back to 21 percent in 2014.

Assuming constant growth rates for minorities and non-Hispanic whites, the city could be
minority majority in the future, although this would not occur until at least 2042 (based on the
growth rates between 2000 and 2010).

Figure I-8.
Racial and Ethnic Composition, Salt
Lake City, 2000, 2010, and 2014
Source:
2000 Census, 2010 Census, 2014 ACS and BBC Research &
Consulting.




Figure I-9 shows the percentage of minorities out of the total population and the percentage of
the largest racial/ethnic group in Salt Lake City, surrounding counties and the state in 2000 and
2014. Across all geographies, the percentage of minorities and the percentage of Hispanic
residents have increased over the last fifteen years. Salt Lake City also has the largest percentage
of minorities and Hispanic residents.




5 http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/5/04%20census%20ethnicity%20frey/0504_census_

ethnicity_frey.pdf.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                   SECTION I, PAGE 10
Figure I-9.
Racial and Ethnic
Composition, Salt
Lake City,
Surrounding
Counties and State,
2000 and 2014
Note:
Percentages calculated from
total population.


Source:
2000 Census, 2014 ACS and BBC
Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING       SECTION I, PAGE 11
Racial/ethnic segregation. In addition to the proportion of residents who are minorities, it is
important to consider the geographic distribution of minority groups throughout the city.
Research increasingly shows the importance of neighborhood on economic and social outcomes,
particularly for children in low income households.

In some cases, minority concentrations are a reflection of preferences—e.g., minorities may
choose to live near family and friends of the same race/ethnicities or where they have access to
grocery stores or restaurants that cater to them. In other cases, minority populations are
intentionally steered away or discouraged from living in certain areas. Housing prices can also
heavily influence where minorities live, to the extent that there are economic disparities among
persons of different races and ethnicities.

The maps on the following pages show geographically where residents of different races and
ethnicities may be concentrated within Salt Lake City. These racial and ethnic concentration
maps use HUD’s definition of concentrations:

    A Census tract in which the percentage of households in a particular racial or ethnic
     minority group is at least 20 percentage points higher than the city overall;

    The total percentage of minority persons is at least 20 percentage points higher than the
     total percentage of all minorities in the housing market areas as a whole; or

    If a metropolitan area, the total percentage of minority persons exceeds 50 percent.

Figures I-10 and I-11 display the Hispanic population proportion and total minority population
proportion in Salt Lake City by Census tract. Minorities are concentrated in most Census tracts
West of I-15. Hispanics, in particular, are concentrated in the Westside planning area and in
portions of the Northwest planning area.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                         SECTION I, PAGE 12
Figure I-10.
Percent of Census Tract Population that is Minority, Salt Lake City 2014




Note:   The Census tract containing the Westside planning area extends outside the city limits and captures portions of north West Valley City.
Sources: 2010-2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                     SECTION I, PAGE 13
Figure I-11.
Percent of Census Tract Population that is Hispanic, Salt Lake City 2014




Note:   The Census tract containing the Westside planning area extends outside the city limits and captures portions of north West Valley City.
Sources: 2010-2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                     SECTION I, PAGE 14
Disability. In 2014, about 18,540 Salt Lake City residents—10 percent of the total population—
had at least one type of disability. Among residents aged 65 and older, 38 percent had a
disability. Figure I-12 displays disability incidence rates by age group for Salt Lake City.

Figure I-12.
                                                                            Number of   Number with     Percent of
Disability by Age Cohort,
                                                                            Residents    a Disability   Residents
Salt Lake City, 2014
                                            Total Residents                  189,945       18,540          10%
Note:
Total resident amount differs from          Residents 5 years and younger     11,913             0          0%
other population totals because the
Census data on population varies            Residents 5 to 17 years           27,927        1,225           4%
depending on the variable (e.g., could
                                            Hearing                                            46           0%
include or exclude people living in group
quarters).                                  Vision                                            256           1%
                                            Cognitive                                         866           3%
Sources:                                    Ambulatory                                         46           0%
2014 American Community Survey and          Self-care                                         123           0%
BBC Research & Consulting.
                                            Population 18 to 64 years        132,406       10,530           8%
                                            Hearing                                         1,839           1%
                                            Vision                                          1,345           1%
                                            Cognitive                                       5,476           4%
                                            Ambulatory                                      4,161           3%
                                            Self-care                                       1,191           1%
                                            Independent living                              3,645           3%
                                            Population 65 years and over      17,699        6,785          38%
                                            Hearing                                         3,358          19%
                                            Vision                                          1,425           8%
                                            Cognitive                                       1,180           7%
                                            Ambulatory                                      4,111          23%
                                            Self-care                                       1,033           6%
                                            Independent living                              2,706          15%


Education. Salt Lake City residents are relatively well educated: approximately 42 percent of
city residents 25 or older have at least a bachelor’s degree, compared to 32 percent in the county
and 31 percent in the state overall. However, the city also has a slightly higher proportion of
residents that did not complete high school (13%) than the state (9%) or county (10%).

Compared to a peer city, such as Denver, the educational attainment of Salt Lake City is pretty
typical. In Denver, 15 percent of residents 25 and older had less than a high school degree and
44 percent had a bachelor’s degree or higher. Boise had fewer residents with less than a high
school degree (6%) and a bachelor’s degree or higher (39%).

Figure I-13 shows educational attainment for the Salt Lake City population 25 years and older
and surrounding counties.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                         SECTION I, PAGE 15
Figure I-13.
Educational Attainment,
Salt Lake City, Balance of Salt
Lake County and Surrounding
Counties, 2014


Sources:
2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




Figure I-14 shows educational attainment by gender, foreign born residents, poverty rate and
median earnings for Salt Lake City, surrounding counties and the state. In Salt Lake City,
educational attainment among male and female residents is almost identical. At the county and
state level, educational attainment differs by gender with male residents obtaining higher levels
of education than female residents. Foreign born residents have relatively low educational
attainment in all geographies, with large percentages having less than a high school education.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                         SECTION I, PAGE 16
      Figure I-14.
      Educational Attainment by Demographic Profile, Salt Lake City, Surrounding Counties and State, 2014

                                                       Salt Lake City      Salt Lake County     Davis County     Utah County         Utah
                                                     Number Percent       Number Percent      Number Percent   Number Percent   Number    Percent

         Male, 25 years and over                           62,335         323,598              88,591          130,518          815,629
         Less than high school                              8,602   14%    37,214     12%       4,341    5%      8,614    7%     77,485     10%
         High School degree                                10,846   17%    71,839     22%      17,009   19%     20,100   15%    182,701     22%
         (or
         Someequivalent)
               college or Associate's degree               16,955   27%   107,758     33%      31,716   36%     47,248   36%    284,655     35%
         Bachelor's degree                                 14,524   23%    65,043     20%      22,148   25%     34,065   26%    168,020     21%
         Graduate degree                                   11,470   18%    41,421     13%      13,200   15%     20,491   16%    103,585     13%
         Female, 25 years and over                         59,383         327,201              92,034          132,249          827,099
         Less than high school                              7,839   13%    33,375     10%       4,049    4%      8,332    6%     70,303      9%
         High School degree                                10,095   17%    76,892     24%      21,628   24%     24,466   19%    199,331     24%
         (or
         Someequivalent)
               college or Associate's degree               16,212   27%   120,083     37%      39,299   43%     56,999   43%    325,050     39%
         Bachelor's degree                                 14,905   25%    66,749     20%      21,168   23%     33,459   25%    168,728     20%
         Graduate degree                                   10,333   17%    30,757      9%       5,890    6%      8,993    7%     63,687      8%
         Foreign Born                                      25,618         106,718              12,595           29,391          191,504
         Less than high school                             10,068   39%    35,781     34%       2,213   18%      7,374   25%     61,502     32%
         High School degree                                 4,881   19%    25,234     24%       3,500   28%      6,070   21%     45,205     24%
         (or
         Someequivalent)
               college or Associate's degree                3,701   14%    21,355     20%       3,493   28%      8,334   28%     42,190     22%
         Bachelor's degree                                  3,361   13%    14,823     14%       2,438   19%      4,988   17%     27,002     14%
         Graduate degree                                    3,607   14%     9,525      9%         951    8%      2,625    9%     15,605      8%
         Poverty Rate, 25 years and over
         Less than high school                                 --   34%         --    25%          --   18%         --   24%          --    24%
         High School degree                                    --   21%         --    12%          --   10%         --   11%          --    11%
         (or
         Someequivalent)
               college or Associate's degree                   --   17%         --     9%          --    6%         --    9%          --     9%
         Bachelor's degree or higher                           --    7%         --     4%          --    3%         --    5%          --     5%

         Median Earnings                              $31,675             $35,349             $40,709          $35,316          $35,208
         Less than high school                        $19,724        --   $21,950        --   $23,560     --   $21,304     --   $21,669        --
         High School degree                           $22,610        --   $28,940        --   $30,186     --   $27,743     --   $29,114        --
         (or
         Someequivalent)
               college or Associate's degree          $27,164        --   $33,099        --   $34,982     --   $30,350     --   $31,990        --
         Bachelor's degree                            $39,202        --   $44,781        --   $51,417     --   $42,660     --   $44,412        --
         Graduate degree                              $59,406        --   $63,021        --   $73,782     --   $71,023     --   $64,877        --

       Source:   2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                           SECTION I, PAGE 17
Economic Indicators
As a complement to the demographic profile, this section discusses the economic indicators for
Salt Lake City residents and workers focusing on the following topics: labor force and
unemployment, employment and earnings by industry, and commuting patterns.

Labor force and unemployment. Among Salt Lake City residents aged 16 and older, 71
percent, about 110,000 residents, participate in the labor force. This means that these residents
were currently employed (either part-time or full-time) or were actively looking for a job.

As displayed by Figure I-14, the city has historically exhibited similar trends in unemployment as
the county and state. Typically, a city’s unemployment rate is slightly higher than a metro area or
state due to higher proportions of low income residents—yet since 2010 unemployment in the
city has held below county and state rates. As of January 2016, Salt Lake City’s unemployment
rate was 3.1 percent and Salt Lake County’s unemployment rate was 3.3 percent.

Figure I-14.
Unemployment Rates, Salt Lake City, Surrounding Counties, State and the U.S., 1990 through
2015




Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics and BBC Research & Consulting.


Commuting. Salt Lake City is a job center for the region as a whole, hosting many more jobs
than working residents. According to the US Census Bureau’s Longitudinal Employer-Household
Dynamics, there are 33,968 workers that both live and work in Salt Lake City. Another 173,548
people work in Salt Lake City but live outside the city. In addition, 44,274 people live in the city
but commute to jobs outside the city. The top commuting destinations for Salt Lake City




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                           SECTION I, PAGE 18
residents working outside the city are Millcreek (10%), West Valley City (7%), South Salt Lake
City (4%) and Sandy (4%).

That means just 16 percent of Salt Lake City jobs are held by city residents, compared to 43
percent in Boise and 29 percent in Denver. About 43 percent of Salt Lake City’s working
residents have jobs in the city, compared to 47 percent in Denver and 67 percent in Boise.

Employment and earnings by industry. Figure I-15 displays employment by industry for
people working in the city and for people living in the city. The figure also displays the average
2014 wage for each industry.

Figure I-15.
Employment and Earnings by Industry, Salt Lake City, 2014




Note:     People who live and work the city are included in both distributions. Average annual wages are estimated for the county as a whole..
Source:   US Census Bureau’s Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics, Bureau of Labor Statistics Quarterly Census of Employment and
          Wages (BLS QCEW) and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                   SECTION I, PAGE 19
Health and Social Services supports the largest proportion of both residents (13%) and workers
(14%). For residents, the next largest sectors are Education, Retail and Hospitality—all relatively
low paying industries. For workers, the next largest sectors are Manufacturing, Public
Administration and Education. Both Manufacturing and Public Administration have higher-than-
average annual wages.

The state, Salt Lake County, and the city are all major employers in Salt Lake City. The top ten
largest employers in Salt Lake City are:




Projections by industry. The Utah Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget provides
employment projections by industry at the county level. Figure I-16 shows the projected growth
of each industry between 2010 and 2020 for Salt Lake County. The industries are listed in order
of highest to lowest average 2014 wage.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                          SECTION I, PAGE 20
Figure I-16.
Employment Projections by Industry, Salt Lake County, 2010 to 2020




Note:   Average annual wages reflect 2011 estimates.
Sources: Governor’s Office of Management and Budget Demographic and Economic Analysis, BLS QCEW and BBC Research & Consulting.


The utilities industry and the finance and insurance industry are both projected to shrink
between 2010 and 2020. The utilities industry, which includes electric power, natural gas, steam
supply, water supply and sewage removal, has relatively high wages but employed only a small
proportion of the workforce in 2010 (less than 1%). The industries with the highest projected
growth are Administrative and Waste Services, Professional Services and Construction. Both
Professional Services and Construction have relatively high average wages.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                            SECTION I, PAGE 21
SECTION II.
Income Profile
SECTION II.
Income Profile
The community income profile analyzes resident incomes through the lens of housing
affordability. The analysis evaluates distribution of households by income group, incomes of
renters and owners and the number and proportion of cost burdened households. Key findings
from this section include:

    Median household income in Salt Lake City was $46,711 in 2014—somewhat lower than
     surrounding suburbs, which is typical for a central city. The countywide median was
     $62,672 in 2014.

    Resident incomes in Salt Lake City increased at about the same rate as the county (both
     12%) between 2011 and 2014. Owners experienced higher percentage gains in median
     income than renters (8% compared to 4%). However, income increases were not enough to
     keep pace with rising home prices and rents.

    The city has relatively few middle and upper income households and a high proportion of
     low income households. Forty percent of city households earn less than $35,000 per year.
     This is partly related to the presence of the University of Utah in Salt Lake City.

    Nearly half (49%) of renters and 22 percent of owners in Salt Lake City are cost burdened—
     spending 30% or more of their income on housing.

Income and Poverty
In 2014, the median household income for Salt Lake City was $46,711, compared to $62,672 for
the county as a whole. As is often the case for urban centers, Salt Lake City’s median income was
lower than many surrounding, suburban communities. Figure II-1 shows the median income for
Salt Lake City along with surrounding municipalities, Salt Lake County and the State of Utah.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                         SECTION II, PAGE 1
Figure II-1.
Median Income, Salt Lake City
Surrounding Communities,
Surrounding Counties and
State, 2014
Note:
Data presented for Salt Lake City, Salt Lake
County and Utah reflect 2014 5-year estimates;
data for all other jurisdictions reflect 2014 1-
year estimates.


Sources:
2014 ACS 1-year and 5-year estimates and BBC
Research & Consulting.




Income growth for the city between 2011 and 2014 was similar to the county overall—median
income for both the city and the county increased by 12 percent over the period.

Income balance and economic segregation. The city has fewer middle and upper income
households compared to the county and state and a higher proportion of low income
households. Forty percent of households in the city earn less than $35,000 per year, compared to
25 percent for the county and 26 percent for the state. Figure II-2 displays the distribution of
household incomes for Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County and the State of Utah.

Figure II-2.
Income Distribution, Salt Lake City, Surrounding Counties and State, 2014




Sources: 2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


Although the proportion of low income residents is high, income mobility is also high. According
to a recent study comparing upward mobility across metropolitan areas, the Salt Lake City MSA
has one of the highest rates of income mobility of any major metro: more than one in ten
children that were raised in the bottom fifth rise to the top fifth. On average, a child who grows




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                          SECTION II, PAGE 2
up in the Salt Lake City metro area with parents who earn $16,000 or less per year (bottom 10th
percentile) will end up in the 43rd percentile of earnings ($52,000).1

Residents of the Salt Lake City metro area may be a bit of an anomaly by this measure since they
form families and have children at relatively early ages, often while they are completing college.
This would suggest that low income children whose parents who are enrolled in educational and
job training programs may have a better chance at upward mobility.

For low income residents looking for housing options or rental subsidies, fair market rents
(FMR) can help determine affordability or subsidy amounts. HUD sets the FMRs annually
depending on supply and demand constraints and current housing market conditions. FMRs are
a primary parameter in rental housing voucher programs.2 Figure II-3 shows the FMRs by
bedroom type for Salt Lake County.

Figure II-3.
Fair Market Rents by Bedroom Type, Salt Lake County, 2016                Final FY 2016 FMRs By Unit
                                                                                  Bedrooms
Source:
                                                                         Efficiency          $603
HUD 2016 FMR datasets and BBC Research & Consulting.
                                                                         One-Bedroom         $757
                                                                         Two-Bedroom         $938
                                                                         Three-Bedroom      $1,351
                                                                         Four-Bedroom       $1,575


Figure II-4 maps income balance by Census tract in Salt Lake City. Income balance is a measure
of the share of households in the tract that are lower income (less than $35,000), middle income
($35,000-$100,000) and high income (over $100,000). Similar thresholds were used in a recent
Pew study on income segregation and are consistent with the way that Americans self-identify as
members of socio-economic classes.

We used statistical methods to determine an income balance rating for each tract: if all income
categories were within one standard deviation of the city-wide average, the tract was considered
"mixed income;" when the proportion of a particular income group exceeded one standard
deviation above the mean that group was considered to be overrepresented.

In other words, “mixed income” tracts generally reflect the income balance of the city whereas
other tracts have a specific income group that is disproportionately represented and may be
economically segregated.

As displayed in Figure II-4, mixed income Census tracts are common downtown and in portions
of the Capitol Hill planning area. Some neighborhoods within the Avenues, Central Community
and Sugar House planning areas are also well-balanced. The disproportionately low income
areas around the University of Utah are related to the student population.




1http://www.equality-of-opportunity.org/.

2https://www.huduser.gov/periodicals/ushmc/winter98/summary-2.html \ .




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                            SECTION II, PAGE 3
Figure II-4.
Income Balance by Census Tract, Salt Lake City 2014




                   *




Note:   The Census tract containing the Westside planning area extends outside the city limits and captures portions of north West Valley City.
        *Household Incomes defined as: Low – Less than 35k, Moderate – 35k to 99k and High – Over 100K
Sources: 2010-2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


Income by AMI. HUD Area Median Income (AMI) is used by HUD’s state and local policy
makers to qualify households for housing programs. AMI is the same for all counties located
within the Salt Lake City MSA: $72,200 in 2015 for a four-person household. As displayed in
Figure II-5, about one-quarter of Salt Lake City households earn less than 30 percent of the area
median income. Another 15 percent earn less than half the area median income.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                     SECTION II, PAGE 4
Figure II-5.                                                                                   Number of      Percent of
Income Distribution by                                                        Income Limit     Households     Households
HAMFI, Salt Lake City,
2014                                      HUD Area Median Income (AMI)            $72,200

                                          0-30% of AMI                            $24,250         19,635          26%
Sources:                                  31-50% of AMI                           $36,100         11,051          15%
2014 ACS, HUD and BBC Research &          51-80% of AMI                           $57,750         13,608          18%
Consulting.
                                          81-100% of AMI                          $72,200          7,588          10%
                                          101-120% of AMI                         $86,640          5,661           7%
                                          More than 120% of AMI                  $86,640+         18,380          24%


Poverty. The poverty rate for Salt Lake City was 21 percent in 2014, down slightly from 22
percent in 2010 but still substantially higher than the county and the state (both at 12%).3
Because of the presence of the University of Utah—the limited incomes of students can inflate
true poverty numbers—family poverty may be a better measure of true poverty in the city.
Fifteen percent of Salt Lake City families lived in poverty in 2014, somewhat higher than peer
cities such as Boise (9%) and Denver (12%). Ogden had a relatively high rate of family poverty
(18%) but most suburban communities outside Salt Lake City had low rates of family poverty.

Figure II-6 displays individual poverty by age and family poverty by household type for the city.
Poverty is highest for children (30% of all children in the city are living in poverty), especially
those living in single parent households (34% of single parent households are living in poverty).

Figure II-6.
                                                                                         Number Living      Percent Living
Poverty, Salt Lake City, 2014
                                                                                          in Poverty          in Poverty


Source:
                                              Individuals
2011 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.        All people                                     40,248             21%
                                               Children (under 18 years)                      11,763             30%
                                               Adults (18 years and over)                     28,485             19%
                                                    18 to 64 years                            26,699             21%
                                                    65 years and over                          1,786             10%
                                              Families
                                              All Families                                     5,707             15%
                                                     with children                             4,579             23%
                                                Married couple families                        2,848             10%
                                                     with children                             2,003             15%
                                                All single parent households                   2,577             39%
                                                     Single father households                    239             13%
                                                     Single mother households                  2,337             49%


Figure II-7 maps poverty rates in Salt Lake City by Census tract. The darkest green shading
indicates a poverty rate exceeding 40 percent; research has shown that a 40 percent poverty
threshold is the point at which an area becomes socially and economically dysfunctional.



3 Following the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) Statistical Policy Directive 14, the Census Bureau uses a set of

money income thresholds that vary by family size and composition to determine who is in poverty. For example, in 2014, the
federal poverty threshold for individuals was $12,071 and the threshold for a family of four (with two children) was $24,008.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                  SECTION II, PAGE 5
Individual poverty is high in the Westside planning area and portions of the Northwest and
Central Community planning areas. The high poverty areas west of I-15 are highly correlated
with Hispanic concentrations displayed in Section I of this report (Figure I-11). High poverty
around the University of Utah reflects the low incomes of students. Most areas of high poverty
do seem to be well-served by the TRAX light rail line, except the southwestern portions of the
Westside planning area.

Figure II-7.
Poverty Rate by Census Tract, Salt Lake City, 2014




Note:   The Census tract containing the Westside planning area extends outside the city limits and captures portions of north West Valley City.
Source: 2010-2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                     SECTION II, PAGE 6
Income by Tenure
In 1999, the median income for renters was $24,887 compared to $52,525 for owners. Between
1999 and 2014, the gap between renter and owner incomes widened as owner incomes
increased by 37 percent while renter incomes only increased by 22 percent. In 2014, the median
household income for Salt Lake City renters was $30,360 and that of owners was $71,903.

Figure II-8.                                                       Median Income                 Percent Change
Median Income by Tenure,
Salt Lake City, 1999-2014                                                                    1999-   2011-    1999-
                                                            1999       2011        2014      2011    2014     2014
Source:
1999 Census, 2011 ACS, 2014 ACS and               Owners    $52,525   $66,297      $71,903   26%      8%       37%
BBC Research & Consulting.                        Renters   $24,887   $29,133      $30,360   17%      4%       22%


Figure II-9 displays the income distribution of renters and owners in both 2011 and 2014. The
proportion of renters earning less than $20,000 decreased between 2011 and 2014—some of
those appear to have shifted into the next income bracket earning $20,000 to $35,000. Among
owners, all cohorts earning more than $75,000 increased as a proportion of the owner
population and all cohorts earning less than $75,000 decreased.

Figure II-9.
Household Income Distribution by Tenure, Salt Lake City, 2011 and 2014




Source: 2011 ACS, 2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


Figure II-10 displays the 2014 income distribution of renters and owners using the HUD AMI
($72,200), which applies to the entire Salt Lake City MSA.

More than one-third of all renters earn 30 percent or less of AMI and nearly 60 percent of
renters earn 50 percent or less of AMI. Only 11 percent of owners earn 30 percent or less of
HAMFI and 19 percent earn 50 percent or less of AMI.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                            SECTION II, PAGE 7
Figure II-10.
                                                              Income         Renters          Owners
Household
Income by AMI                                                  Limit     Number Percent   Number Percent
and Tenure, Salt
                               HUD Area Median Income (AMI)    $72,200
Lake City, 2014
                               0-30% of AMI                    $24,250   15,744   38%       3,892    11%
Source:
                               31-50% of AMI                   $36,100    8,421   20%       2,630     8%
2014 ACS and BBC
Research & Consulting.
                               51-80% of AMI                   $57,750    6,917   17%       6,691    19%
                               81-100% of AMI                  $72,200    3,479    8%       4,109    12%
                               101-120% of AMI                 $86,640    2,205    5%       3,456    10%
                               More than 120% of AMI          $86,640+    4,466   11%      13,914    40%


Cost Burden
In addition to income, it is important to consider residents’ housing expenses relative to their
income. Residents spending 30 percent or more of their income on housing are said to be “cost
burdened” and residents spending 50 percent or more of their income on housing are said to be
“severely cost burdened.”

Nearly half (49%) of all renters (18,672 households) in Salt Lake City are cost burdened.
Twenty-three percent of renters are severely cost burdened. Owners are far less likely to be
cost-burdened: in Salt Lake City 22 percent of owners (7,599 households) are cost burdened and
8 percent are severely cost burdened. Figure II-11 displays housing costs as a percentage of
monthly income for Salt Lake City households.

Figure II-11.
Cost Burden by Tenure,
Salt Lake City, 2014
Note:
Cost-burdened households spend 30
percent or more of their monthly
income on housing expenses.


Source:
2014 ACS and BBC Research &
Consulting.




Figures II-12 and II-13 display the proportion of renters and owners that are cost burdened by
Census tract in Salt Lake City. The Westside planning area contains a high proportion of cost
burdened renters and cost burdened owners. The Northwest planning area also contains a high
proportion of renters that are cost burdened.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                  SECTION II, PAGE 8
Figure II-12.
Proportion of Census Tract Renter Household that are Cost-Burdened, Salt Lake City, 2014




Note:   The Census tract containing the Westside planning area extends outside the city limits and captures portions of north West Valley City.
Source: 2010-2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                     SECTION II, PAGE 9
Figure II-13.
Proportion of Census Tract Owner Household that are Cost-Burdened, Salt Lake City, 2014




Note:   The Census tract containing the Westside planning area extends outside the city limits and captures portions of north West Valley City.
Source: 2010-2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                    SECTION II, PAGE 10
SECTION III.
Housing Profile and Affordability
SECTION III.
Housing Profile and Affordability
This section provides an overview of Salt Lake City’s housing stock, renter and owner profiles,
and market trends in both the ownership and rental markets. Affordability is also discussed but
market mismatches are addressed in Section IV. Key findings from this section include:

    About half of Salt Lake City’s housing stock is single family detached and half is attached
     housing (apartments, condos, townhomes, etc). The city’s housing stock tends to be older
     and smaller than the housing stock in the balance of the county.

    Salt Lake City is home to more renters (54%) than owners (46%). Renters tend to be
     younger, have lower levels of educational attainment and earn lower incomes than owners.
     Renters are also more likely to be racial/ethnic minorities.

    Compared to surrounding communities, median rent is relatively low ($761) and median
     home value ($238,700) and median sale price ($255,000) are moderate.

    Both renters and owners lost purchasing power between 2011 and 2014 (continuing the
     trend from 2000). That is, sale prices increased faster than owner incomes and rent
     increased faster than renter incomes.

             Median sale price for homes increased 33 percent but owner incomes increased
              by only 8 percent.
             Median rent increased 8 percent but renter incomes increased only 4 percent.
              Vacancy rates around 2 percent reflect a particularly tight rental market.

Existing Housing Stock
According to the 2014 ACS there are 81,715 housing units (occupied and vacant) in Salt Lake
City, up from 80,724 in 2010—a 1.2 percent increase. The city’s housing stock accounts for 22
percent of the housing units in Salt Lake County. Just fewer than half (46%) of households in the
city are owner-occupied; 54 percent are renter occupied.

Housing type. Overall, about half of Salt Lake City’s housing stock is single family detached and
half is attached housing (apartments, condos, townhomes, etc). In Salt Lake County as a whole,
about two-thirds of the housing stock is single family detached and one-third is attached.

The vast majority of Salt Lake City owners (83%) live in single family detached houses and the
vast majority of renters (80%) live in attached units. Figure III-1 displays housing type by tenure
for Salt Lake City.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                          SECTION III, PAGE 1
Figure III-1.
Housing Type by Tenure, Salt Lake City, 2014




Source: 2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


Figure III-2 displays the proportion of homes that are detached single family homes by Census
tract. Not surprisingly, the city center and university area have a low proportion of detached
homes and the outer portions of the city have a higher proportion of detached homes.

Figure III-2.
Percent of Census Tract Households that are Single Family Detached, Salt Lake City, 2014




Note:   The Census tract containing the Westside planning area extends outside the city limits and captures portions of north West Valley City.
Source: 2010-2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                     SECTION III, PAGE 2
The diversity of structure types prevalent in the city’s housing stock is consistent with the
housing and community preferences Utahns expressed in the Envision Utah survey. Seventy-
eight percent of Utahns want communities that include a full mix of housing types (including
small lot detached homes, townhomes, condos and apartments). The survey also shows that in
order to achieve that goal, Utah residents are willing to allow more housing types in more
communities.1

Household size and bedrooms. One-third of housing units in Salt Lake City have two
bedrooms; 24 percent have fewer than two bedrooms and 42 percent have three or more
bedrooms. As shown in Figure III-3, the county has a much higher proportion of larger units—68
percent of the county’s housing stock has three or more bedrooms.

Figure III-3.
Number of Bedrooms, Salt Lake City, 2014
Source:
2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




On average, owner-occupied households in Salt Lake City are larger (2.62 people) than renter
occupied households (2.31 people). Owner occupied units also tend to have more bedrooms than
renter occupied units. Over two-thirds of owner occupied homes have three or more bedrooms,
compared to just 20 percent of renter occupied homes.

Age of housing stock. About 9 percent of Salt Lake City’s housing stock was built in the past
15 years (since 2000); another 13 percent was built between 1980 and 2000. Nearly half (47%)
was built between 1940 and 1980 and nearly one-third was built before 1940. Figure III-4
displays the city’s housing stock by age; data for the county are included for comparison.

When examined by tenure, the city’s owner occupied units are older than renter occupied units.
For example, two-thirds of owner occupied units were built before 1960 compared to less than
half (46%) of renter occupied units.




1 http://envisionutah.org/projects/your-utah-your-future/item/346-results




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                      SECTION III, PAGE 3
FigureIII-4.
Age of Housing Stock, Salt Lake
City, 2014
Source:
2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting..




Age of homes can be an important indicator of housing condition: older houses tend to have
more condition problems and are more likely to contain materials such as lead based paint.
Approximately 32 percent of the housing units in Salt Lake City were built before 1940, when the
risk of lead-based paint is highest.2 In areas where revitalization of older housing stock is active,
many old houses may be in excellent condition; however, in general, condition issues are still
most likely to arise in older structures.

Overcrowding and substandard conditions. Other key factors to examine in evaluating
housing condition are overcrowding and substandard units. Overcrowding in housing can
threaten public health, strain public infrastructure, and points to an increasing need of
affordable housing. This study uses HUD’s definition of having more than one person per room
to identify overcrowded units.3 Approximately 4 percent of the city’s households—or about
3,265 households—are overcrowded. Two percent of owner-occupied housing units (533 units)
were overcrowded and 7 percent of renter-occupied units (2,702 units) were overcrowded.

The 2014 ACS reported that 304 housing units (vacant and occupied) in the city lacked complete
plumbing facilities and 683 housing units (vacant and occupied) lacked complete kitchens.
Together, assuming no overlap, these 987 severely substandard units represent 1.3 percent of
the city’s total housing units.

Profile of Renters and Owners
Salt Lake City is home to more renters (54%) than owners (46%). Renters tend to be younger,
have lower levels of educational attainment and earn lower incomes than owners. Renters are
also more likely to be non-family households and single-person households. Renters are also
more likely to be racial/ethnic minorities. Figure III-5 summarizes characteristics of renters and
owners in Salt Lake City. The figure displays the number and distribution of renter and owner



2 Lead-based paint was banned from residential use in 1978. Housing built before 1978 is considered to have some risk, but

housing built prior to 1940 is considered to have the highest risk. After 1940, paint manufacturers voluntarily began to reduce
the amount of lead they added to their paint. As a result, painted surfaces in homes built before 1940 are likely to have higher
levels of lead than homes built between 1940 and 1978.
3 The HUD American Housing Survey defines a room as an enclosed space used for living purposes, such as a bedroom, living or

dining room, kitchen, recreation room, or another finished room suitable for year-round use. Excluded are bathrooms, laundry
rooms, utility rooms, pantries, and unfinished areas.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                  SECTION III, PAGE 4
households by demographic characteristic and also provides the homeownership rate by age
group, household type, education level and race/ethnicity.

Figure III-5.
Profile of Renters and Owners, Salt Lake City, 2014

                                                      Renters             Owners             Ownership
                                                  Number    Percent   Number   Percent         Rate

    Total households                               41,232    100%      34,691    100%            46%
    Median Income                                 $30,360             $71,903
    Age of householder
       Young Millennials (15-24)                    5,990     15%         361     1%              6%
       Post-college millennials (25-34)            15,920     39%       4,191    12%             21%
       Ages 35-44                                   6,398     16%       7,241    21%             53%
       Ages 45-64                                   8,209     20%      14,386    41%             64%
       Seniors (65 and older)                       4,715     11%       8,512    25%             64%
    Household Type
       Non-family households                       24,720     60%      11,844    34%             32%
          Householder living alone                 17,330     42%       9,747    28%             36%
       Families                                    16,512     40%      22,847    66%             58%
          Married couples without children          5,518     13%      11,400    33%             67%
          Married couples with children             4,622     11%       8,128    23%             64%
          Single parent hh                          4,051     10%       1,565     5%             28%
          Other family household (no children)      2,321      6%       1,754     5%             43%
    Householder Educational Attainment
       Less than high school graduate               6,854     17%       2,288     7%             25%
       High school graduate (or equivalent)         7,027     17%       3,872    11%             36%
       Some college or associate's degree          12,896     31%       9,964    29%             44%
       Bachelor's degree or higher                 14,455     35%      18,567    54%             56%
    Race/Ethnicity of householder
       Non-Hispanic white                          28,396     69%      29603     85%             51%
       Hispanic                                      7094     17%       3414     10%             32%
       Other minority                               5,742     14%       1,674     5%             23%

Source: 2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


Some of the key differences between Salt Lake City renters and owners are summarized below:

      Median income for renters in Salt Lake City ($30,360) is less than half the median income of
       owners ($71,903). In 1999, the median income for renters was $24,887 compared to
       $52,525 for owners. Between 1999 and 2014, the gap between renter and owner incomes
       widened as owner incomes increased by 37 percent while renter incomes only increased by
       22 percent.

      Over half of all renters in the city are millennials (aged 15-34); over one-third are post-
       college aged millennials (25-34). About one in five post-college millennials owns a home,
       compared to nearly two-thirds of residents over the age of 45.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                SECTION III, PAGE 5
    About 60 percent of renters are in non-family households, compared to 34 percent of
     owners. About 21 percent of renter households have children (10% are married with
     children and 11% are single parents) as do 28 percent of owner households (23% are
     married with children and just 5% are single parents). Married couples with children are
     much more likely to own a home (64% own a home) than single parents (28% own a
     home).

    Over half of homeowners have a bachelor’s degree or higher and only 7 percent failed to
     complete high school. Among renters, 17 percent have less than a high school degree and 35
     percent have a bachelor’s degree or higher.

    Renters are much more likely than owners to belong to a racial or ethnic minority group: 31
     percent of renters are either Hispanic or some other minority compared to 15 percent of
     homeowners. Overall, 51 percent of non-Hispanic white residents own their homes,
     compared to 32 percent of Hispanic residents and 23 percent of other minority residents.

Figure III-6 maps the homeownership rate for each Census tract in the city. The Central
Community planning area is predominately renter occupied as is the area immediately
surrounding the University. City Creek Canyon has a very high proportion of owners, as does the
northern half of the Avenues planning area. The northwest corner of the city, along with the east
side of the Sugar House and East Bench planning areas, also has a high rate of homeownership.
For the most part, Census tracts adjacent to the TRAX light rail line are majority renter.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                        SECTION III, PAGE 6
Figure III-6.
Percent of Census Tract Households that are Owner Occupied, Salt Lake City, 2014




Note:   The Census tract containing the Westside planning area extends outside the city limits and captures portions of north West Valley City.
Source: 2010-2014 5-year ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                     SECTION III, PAGE 7
Housing Cost and Affordability
This section of the report discusses housing costs in Salt Lake City through the lens of
affordability. The for-sale, or ownership market, is discussed first, followed by the rental market.

Ownership market. Similar to most housing markets across the country, Salt Lake City
experienced substantial increases in home values between 2000 and 2007 followed by a drop in
values and sales activity as the housing bubble burst. However, the impact in Salt Lake City (6%
decline in home values between 2007 and 2011) was not as severe as in the U.S. as a whole (11%
decline in values).

Since early 2012, home prices and home value in Salt Lake City have been on the rise. By the end
of 2014 the median sale price ($235,000) exceeded the 2007 peak median sale price of
$223,751. Figure III-7 displays the median home value and the median sales price for Salt Lake
City in select years between 1999 and 2014.

Figure III-7.
Median Home Value and Median Sales Price Trends, Salt Lake City, 1999 through 2014




Source: 2000 Census; 2005, 2007, 2011 and 2014 ACS, Salt Lake Board of Realtors and BBC Research & Consulting.


Home value. According to the 2014 ACS, the median value of owner-occupied homes in Salt Lake
City was $238,700, very similar to the median value for the county as a whole ($241,500).
Figure III-8 displays the distribution of Salt Lake City homes by value. Approximately 22 percent
of homes are valued at less than $150,000 and another 13 percent are valued between $150,000
and $200,000. Nearly half of the city’s homes are valued between $200,000 and $500,000 and 13
percent are valued above $500,000.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                        SECTION III, PAGE 8
Figure III-8.
Home Value Distribution,
Salt Lake City, 2014
Source:
2011 American Community Survey and
BBC Research & Consulting.




Figure III-9 compares the median home value in Salt Lake City to that of surrounding
communities, Salt Lake County and the State of Utah. Salt Lake City home values are in the
middle portion of the range defined by surrounding communities.

Figure III-9.
Median Home Value, Salt
Lake City and Surrounding
Communities, 2014
Note:
Data presented for Salt Lake City, Salt
Lake County and Utah reflect 2014 5-
year estimates; data for all other
jurisdictions reflect 2014 1-year
estimates.


Sources:
2014 ACS 1-year and 5-year estimates
and BBC Research & Consulting.




Within the geographic boundaries of Salt Lake City, home values are highest in the north and
east portions of the city and lowest west of I-15. Figure III-10 displays the median home value by
Census tract for Salt Lake City.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                         SECTION III, PAGE 9
Figure III-10.
Median Home Value by Census Tract, Salt Lake City, 2014




Note:   The Census tract containing the Westside planning area extends outside the city limits and captures portions of north West Valley City.
Source: 2010-2014 5-yearACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


Home sales. In Q1-Q3 of 2015, about 3,600 homes were sold in Salt Lake City for a median sale
price of $255,000. Seventy-seven percent of sales were single family detached homes, a
proportion slightly below the 83 percent of owner-occupied homes in the city that are single
family detached.

Between 2005 and 2015, housing prices increased faster in the city (57%) than in the county as
a whole (43%). Prices for detached homes increased faster than attached homes (condos,
townhomes and twins) in both the city and the county.

Figure III-11 displays the median sold price for Salt Lake City and Salt Lake County by housing
type and year (2005, 2012, 2014 and 2015).




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                   SECTION III, PAGE 10
Figure III-11.
Median Sold Price for Homes in Salt Lake City and Salt Lake County, 2005 to 2015

                                                                                                                        Percent Change
                                               2005            2012                2014               2015                2005-2015

   Salt Lake City
     All Homes                            $162,500           $185,000            $235,000           $255,000                    57%
     Single Family Detached               $172,500           $196,893            $255,000           $277,000                    61%
     Attached*                            $129,950           $145,000            $174,950           $174,950                    35%
   Salt Lake County
     All Homes                            $175,000           $195,000            $235,000           $250,000                    43%
     Single Family Detached               $187,500           $212,000            $255,500           $275,000                    47%
     Attached*                            $132,900           $144,050            $174,900           $185,000                    39%

Note:     Attached includes condos, townhomes and twins. Data from 2015 includes only the first three quarters of the year.
Source: Multiple List Service (MLS) and BBC Research & Consulting.


Figure III-12 compares the 2015 median sale price for homes sold in Salt Lake City to
surrounding communities. Similar to Salt Lake City home values (Figure III-9), the median sales
price of Salt Lake City homes is in the middle portion of the range defined by surrounding
communities.

Figure III-12.
Median Sold Price, Salt Lake City
and Surrounding Communities,
2015
Note:
Data from 2015 includes only the first three
quarters of the year.


Source:
Multiple List Service (MLS) and BBC Research &
Consulting.




Ownership affordability. As discussed in the Income Profile (Section II of this report), owners
experienced higher percentage gains in median income than renters between 2011 and 2014.
However, income increases were not enough to keep pace with rising housing costs, even after
accounting for lower interest rates in 2014.

In 2011, the median sale price of $177,204 demanded a buyer income of $45,262 assuming a 30
year fixed rate mortgage with a 4.25 percent interest rate and assuming about 30 percent of
monthly housing costs are for taxes, utilities, etc. In 2014, the median sale price was $235,000
and required an income of $57,890 under the same mortgage assumptions but with a lower
interest rate (3.95%).

The increase in income required to afford the change in median sale price was 28 percent. The
actual increase in median owner income was 8 percent.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                     SECTION III, PAGE 11
Rental market. According to market reports, apartment vacancy rates in the Greater Salt Lake
Area were at a fourteen year low in early 2015—indicating a very tight rental market.4 The 2014
ACS reports median rent (including utilities) in Salt Lake City to be $819 per month, up from
$761 in 2011 and $564 in 2000. The increase in rent between 2011 and 2014 in the city (8%)
was on part with median rent in the county overall, which increased by 9 percent over the same
period (from $859 to $939 per month).

Vacancy rates. The ACS reports a 2014 rental vacancy rate of 4 percent for the City of Salt Lake.
Market reports for the county overall suggest an even lower vacancy rate of 2.7 percent (as of
September 2015)—the lowest vacancy rate in fourteen years. In 2011, the area’s vacancy rate
for apartments was 5.2 percent. Vacancy rates are lowest for studios (vacancy rate of less than
2.0%) and three bedroom two bath units (2.0% vacant) indicating substantial demand for both
the smallest and largest units on the market.5

Distribution of rents. As shown in Figure III-13, most Salt Lake City renters (57%) pay between
$500 and $1,000 for their units. Five percent pay less than $300 and 9 percent pay more than
$1,500 per month. The rent distribution of the county is shifted toward higher rents relative to
the city.

Figure III-13.
Gross Rent Distribution, Salt Lake
City, 2014
Source:
2014 and BBC Research & Consulting.




Figure III-14 compares the median rent in Salt Lake City to that of surrounding communities, Salt
Lake County and the State of Utah. As indicated by the figure, the median rent in Salt Lake City is
relatively affordable compared to surrounding communities.




4 Apartment Market Report, Greater Salt Lake Area. September 2015. A Cushman & Wakefield Commerce Research Publication.

Available online at http://www.comre.com/research
5 Ibid.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                         SECTION III, PAGE 12
Figure III-14.
Median Rent, Salt Lake City and
Surrounding Communities, 2014
Note:
Data presented for Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County
and Utah reflect 2014 5-year estimates; data for all
other jurisdictions reflect 2014 1-year estimates.


Sources:
2014 ACS 1-year and 5-year estimates and BBC
Research & Consulting.




Within the city, rents are highest in the northeast portion of the city and some portions of the
East Bench planning area. However, portions of the Westside planning area and the Northwest
Quadrant also have relatively high median rent. Figure III-15 displays the median rent (including
utilities) by Census tract for Salt Lake City.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                       SECTION III, PAGE 13
Figure III-15.
Median Gross Rent by Census Tract, Salt Lake City, 2014




Source: 2010-2014 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


Market rates. The ACS data on median rent and rental distribution is a comprehensive analysis
of what all renters currently pay for rent. However, those data might not reflect what is available
on the market for a household looking to rent. A survey of apartment complexes in the Greater
Salt Lake area shows that average rents county-wide were $907 in 2015, up from $754 in 2011
(20% increase). Average rent by unit size ranged from $638 for a studio to $1,132 for a three-
bedroom, two-bath unit. Average rent was highest for apartment communities with 100 to 250
units at $960. Average rent for larger complexes (with more than 250 units) was $896 and
average rent for smaller complexes (fewer than 100 units) was $823.6

BBC also tracked Salt Lake City rental listings on KSL.com between mid-October and mid-
December of 2015. Over that period, 484 rentals were listed with an average rent of $1,059 per
month. Nearly one-quarter of the rentals listed were single family homes (23%); another 13
percent were listed as townhomes or condos. Those rental types commanded the highest




6 Apartment Market Report, Greater Salt Lake Area. September 2015. A Cushman & Wakefield Commerce Research Publication.

Available online at http://www.comre.com/research




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                         SECTION III, PAGE 14
average rents: $1,611 for single family homes and $1,236 for townhomes/condos. Average rents
for apartments and other multifamily units listed on KSL.com was $899.

Permit data indicate that the inventory of apartment units in Salt Lake County overall is
increasing. Nearly 2,800 permits were issued in 2014—up from 1,700 each of the previous two
years. As of June 2015, 922 additional permits had been issued for new apartment construction.

Renter affordability. Between 2011 and 2014 renters in Salt Lake City lost purchasing power as
rents increased faster than incomes. Median rent increased by 8 percent in Salt Lake City from
$761 in 2011 to $819 in 2014. In order to afford the increase in rent, renters' annual incomes
would have needed to increase by $2,320 between 2011 and 2014; however actual increase in
renter median income was only $1,227. Renter affordability gaps by income level are discussed
in detail in Section IV, Market Mismatches.

Assisted rental housing. According to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) there are 3,026 publicly supported housing units in Salt Lake City. About half of those are
supported through the housing choice voucher program. Voucher holders are most likely to live
in the south central or eastern portions of the city.

Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) developments, which are not included in the above
estimates also provide income restricted rental options for Salt Lake City residents. There are
about 50 LIHTC developments in the city and most are located in the Central Community or
downtown planning areas.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                        SECTION III, PAGE 15
SECTION IV.
Market Mismatches and Gaps
SECTION IV.
Market Mismatches and Gaps
To examine how well Salt Lake City’s current housing market meets the needs of its residents—
and to determine how likely it is to accommodate demand of future residents and workers—BBC
conducted a modeling effort called a “gaps analysis.” The analysis compares the supply of
housing at various price points to the number of households who can afford such housing. If
there are more housing units than households, the market is “over‐supplying” housing at that
price range. Conversely, if there are too few units, the market is “under‐supplying” housing.

This section uses the results of the gaps analysis to answer the following questions:

   1.   How easy is it for renters to find units in their affordability range?
   2.   How easy is it for renters who want to be homeowners to buy in Salt Lake City?
   3.   Can current owners afford to buy in the city if they want to buy up or downsize?
   4.   What can workers afford?

Rental Gaps
Affordability for renters has two components: mismatches in the rental market and ownership
opportunities for renters wanting to buy. The gaps analysis conducted for renters in Salt Lake
City addresses both rental affordability and ownership opportunities.

Mismatch in rental market. Figure IV‐1compares the number of renter households in Salt
Lake City in 2014, their income levels, the maximum monthly rent they could afford without
being cost‐burdened, and the number of units in the market that were affordable to them. The
“Rental Gap” column shows the difference between the number of renter households and the
number of rental units affordable to them. Negative numbers (in parentheses) indicate a
shortage of units at the specific income level; positive units indicate an excess of units.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                         SECTION IV, PAGE 1
Figure IV‐1.
Mismatch in Rental Market, Salt Lake City, 2014

                                        Maximum
                                     Affordable Rent,            Renters                  Rental Units
    Income Range                    Including Utilities      Number    Percent         Number     Percent          Rental Gap

    Less than $5,000                        $125                3,082      8%              364          1%           (2,719)
    $5,000 to $9,999                        $250                3,259      8%            1,188          3%           (2,071)
    $10,000 to $14,999                      $375                2,714      7%            1,250          3%           (1,464)
    $15,000 to $19,999                      $500                3,569      9%            2,356          6%           (1,213)
    $20,000 to $24,999                      $625                3,023      8%            4,713         11%             1,691
    $25,000 to $34,999                      $875                7,288     18%           13,785         33%             6,497
    $35,000 to $49,999                     $1,250               5,261     13%           10,811         26%             5,551
    $50,000 to $74,999                     $1,875               5,809     15%            5,843         14%               34
    $75,000 or more                       $1875+                5,788     15%             1,327          3%          (4,461)
    Total/Low Income Gap                                       39,792    100%           41,637        100%           (7,467)

Source: 2014 American Community Survey and BBC Research & Consulting.


The gaps analysis in Figure IV‐1 shows that:

      Sixteen percent of renters in Salt Lake City earn less than $10,000 per year. These renters
       need units that cost less than $250 per month to avoid being cost burdened. Just 4 percent
       of rental units in the city rent for less than $250 per month.

                  Over 3,000 renters earn less than $5,000 per year. There are only 364 rental
                   units priced at their affordability range (less than $125 per month). This leaves a
                   “gap,” or shortage, of 2,700 units for these extremely low income households.
                  Another 3,300 households earn between $5,000 and $10,000 per year. These
                   households have 1,200 affordable units to choose from, leaving a shortage of
                   2,100 rental units.
      Rental unit shortages also exist for renters earning between $10,000 and $15,000 per year
       (2,800 renters v. 1,250 units = gap of 1,500 units) and those earning between $15,000 and
       $20,000 per year (3,600 renters and 2,400 units = gap of 1,200 units).

      Altogether, the city has a shortage of rental units priced affordably for renters earning less
       than $20,000 per year of 7,467 units (down from a gap of 8,240 units in 2011). Some of
       these renters are students.1 These households are also working residents earning low
       wages, residents who are unemployed and residents who are disabled and cannot work—in
       other words, those residents who are truly living in poverty.2




1 Data limitations make it difficult to separate out renters who are students and may receive assistance paying rent from

parents, student loans and/or other non‐income sources. These students affect the rental market in a number of ways but their
true economic need for affordable units is unknown.
2 It is important to note that these renters are not homeless. Those renters who cannot find affordability priced rentals are

living in units that cost more than they can afford. These households are “cost burdened.”



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                     SECTION IV, PAGE 2
In sum, the private rental market in Salt Lake City largely serves renters earning between
$20,000 and $50,000 per year—70 percent of rental units are priced within that group’s
affordability range.

The market fails to adequately serve the 32 percent of renters earning less than $20,000 per
year—only 12 percent of units are priced within that group’s affordability range, even when
accounting for the impact of housing choice vouchers. There are 12,624 renters earning less than
$20,000 and 5,158 units affordable to them, leaving a gap of 7,467.

Despite some losses in rental affordability (discussed in Section II), the rental gap narrowed
slightly between 2011 and 2014—falling from 8,240 units to 7,467 units. That decrease in need
is primarily related to the increase in renter incomes between 2011 and 2014, which resulted in
fewer renters earning less than $20,000 per year.

Figure IV‐2.
                                                                                    2011             2014
Rental Gap Comparison,
Salt Lake City, 2011 and               Number of units affordable to renters
2014                                                                                5,226           5,158
                                       earning less than $20,000 per year

                                       Number of renters earning less than
Source:                                $20,000 per year
                                                                               ‐   13,466          12,624

BBC Research & Consulting.
                                       Difference (rental gap)                     ‐8,240          ‐7,467


Gaps in the For Sale Market
This section discusses how easy it is for renters at various income levels to buy in Salt Lake City.
It concludes with an assessment of how easily current homeowners can buy “up” or “down” in
the market.

Market options for renters wanting to buy. A similar gaps analysis was conducted to
evaluate the market options affordable to renters who may wish to purchase a home in Salt Lake
City. Again, the model compared renters, renter income levels, the maximum monthly housing
payment they could afford, and the proportion of units in the market that were affordable to
them. The maximum affordable home prices shown in Figure IV‐3 assume a 30‐year mortgage
with a 10 percent down payment and an interest rate of 3.95 percent. The estimates also
incorporates property taxes, insurance and utilities (assumed to collectively account for 30% of
the monthly payment).

 The “Renter Purchase Gap” column in Figure IV‐3 shows the difference between the proportion
of renter households and the proportion of homes sold in 2014 or 2015 that were affordable to
them. Negative numbers (in parentheses) indicate a shortage of units at the specific income
level; positive units indicate an excess of units.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                   SECTION IV, PAGE 3
Figure IV‐3.
Market Options for Renters Wanting to Buy, Salt Lake City, 2014/15

                                  Renters who want to                                                     Cumulative
                                    buy: Maximum                               Total Homes for             Percent of            Renter
                                      Affordable             Percent of       Sale/Sold, 2014‐15          Sold Homes,           Purchase
   Income Range                       Home Price             all Renters      Number Percent                2014‐15               Gap

   Less than $5,000                       $20,283                 8%                4          0.1%               0%               ‐8%
   $5,000 to $9,999                       $40,566                 8%               14          0.2%               0%               ‐8%
   $10,000 to $14,999                     $60,845                 7%               24          0.3%               1%               ‐7%
   $15,000 to $19,999                     $81,128                 9%               71            1%               1%               ‐8%
   $20,000 to $24,999                    $101,411                 8%              157            2%               3%               ‐6%
   $25,000 to $34,999                    $141,976                18%              813           11%              14%               ‐8%
   $35,000 to $49,999                    $202,825                13%            1,742           23%              37%                9%
   $50,000 to $74,999                    $304,240                15%            2,248           29%              66%               15%
   $75,000 to $99,999                    $405,654                 8%            1,365           18%              83%               10%
   $100,000 or more                     $405,654+                 7%            1,280           17%             100%               10%

Note:     Maximum affordable home price is based on a 30 year mortgage with a 10 percent down payment and an interest rate of 3.95%. Property
          taxes, insurance and utilities are assumed to collectively account for 30% of the monthly payment.
Source: 2014 American Community Survey, Multiple List Service and BBC Research & Consulting.


The for sale gaps analysis shows the Salt Lake City market to be relatively affordable for renters
earning more than $35,000 per year. For renters earning less than $35,000 just 14 percent of
homes are affordable, most of which are condos. For renters earning $50,000 per year 37
percent of homes are affordable and for those earning $75,000 per year two‐thirds of all homes
on the market are affordable.

Figure IV‐4 shows the typical characteristics of a home affordable to renter households earning
$50,000 and $75,000 in Salt Lake City. Although older, these homes are adequately sized for a
starter home and are mostly comprised of single family detached housing.


Figure IV‐4.                                                                                     Renters earning          Renters earning
Characteristics of Homes                                                                         $50,000 or less          $75,000 or less
Affordable to Renters, Salt Lake
City and Balance of County,                              Property Characteristics
2014/15
                                                             Average number of bedrooms                   2.8                       3.0
Note:                                                        Average number of bathrooms                  1.6                       1.8
Maximum affordable home price is based on a 30               Average square footage                     1,359                    1,587
year mortgage with a 10 percent down payment
and an interest rate of 3.95%. Property taxes,               Average year built                         1961                     1958
insurance and utilities are assumed to collectively
account for 30% of the monthly payment.                  Property Type
                                                             Single family detached                       64%                     72%
Source:                                                      Condo                                        30%                     23%
Multiple List Service and BBC Research &                     Townhome                                      5%                      4%
Consulting.


Figure IV‐5 displays the characteristics of homes affordable to the average Salt Lake City worker
(earning $48,290), both in the city and in the balance of the county. Affordable homes in the
balance of the county are slightly newer and slightly larger than affordable homes in the city but
overall, workers have comparable choices in the city and balance of the county.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                SECTION IV, PAGE 4
Figu
   ure IV‐5.
                                                                                                                       Balance
Chaaracteristics off Homes
                                                                                                Salt Lake City        of Countyy
Affo
   ordable to the e Average
Worker, Salt Lake e City and                                 Prop
                                                                perty Characterisstics
Bala
   ance of Countty, 2014/15
                                                                  A
                                                                  Average number of bedrooms           2.7                  3.1
Sourcce:                                                          A
                                                                  Average number of bathrooms          1.6                  2.0
Multiple List Service (MLSS) and BBC Research &                   A
                                                                  Average square footage            1,338                1,544
    ulting.
Consu
                                                                  A
                                                                  Average year built                1961                 1979
                                                             Prop
                                                                perty type
                                                                  SSingle Family Dettached           63%                  58%
                                                                   Condo
                                                                   C                                 31%                  19%
                                                                   Townhome
                                                                   T                                  5%                  21%


Figu
   ure IV‐6 displlays the locattion of homess affordable too households earning $50,,000 and
$75
  5,000 per yearr in both the city and the county.
                                            c       The mmap shows alll homes listed
                                                                                   d or sold in 20
                                                                                                 014
and
  d homes listedd or sold in Q1‐Q3 of 2015 5.

Figu
   ure IV‐6.
Hommes Affordablle to Househo
                            olds earning $50,000
                                         $       and $775,000, Salt Lake County, 2
                                                                                 2014/15




Note::     Does not include
                          e recreational or mobile homes.
Sourcce: Multiple List Serrvice and BBC Researrch & Consulting.




BBC
  C RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                        SECTION IV, PAAGE 5
Current homeowner equity and options. Between 2000 and 2014, housing prices
increased faster (36%) than owner incomes (26%). However, the market is still relatively
affordable to current homeowners. Even if we assume owners would not use their current equity
for the purchase of a new home, the distribution of market offerings is similar to the income
distribution of current owners. In other words, there appears to be no substantial mismatches
between owner affordability and the for sale market.

What Can Workers Afford?
As discussed in the Community Profile (Section I), Salt Lake City has a substantial number of in‐
commuters: 173,548 people work but do not live in the city. Although housing preferences
among in‐commuters may differ, it is important to evaluate the city’s affordable options in order
to understand the tradeoffs related to housing and commute. Figure IV‐7 displays affordable
rental and ownership options for workers earning the average county wage by industry.

Among the five largest industries in Salt Lake City, which account for about half of all workers,
four industries have average wages high enough to afford the city’s median rent and two of the
five industries (20% of all workers) have average wages high enough to afford the 2014/15
median sale price of $235,000.

Overall, the average Salt Lake City worker—earning $48,290 per year—could afford 80 percent
of the city’s rental units and 35 percent of the homes sold in 2014/15. The same worker could
afford just 30 percent of the homes in the balance of the county.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                          SECTION IV, PAGE 6
Figure IV‐7.
Affordability for Workers by Industry, Salt Lake City, 2014/15

                                                                                                                                                                         Percent of Available Homes
                                                                                                                                                                             That Are Affordable
                                                  Average         Percent of         Affordable         Can Afford          Affordable        Can Afford Median          Salt Lake        Balance of
   Industry                                     Annual Wage       All Workers           Rent           Median Rent?         Home Price           Home Price?                City            County

   Health and Social Services                       $43,419            12%              $1,085               yes              $176,133                 no                    28%                 21%
   Manufacturing                                    $58,279            12%              $1,457               yes              $236,414                 yes                   48%                 48%
   Public Administration                            $47,439             9%              $1,186               yes              $192,440                 no                    33%                 28%
   Professional Services                            $73,341             9%              $1,834               yes              $297,514                 yes                   64%                 68%
   Hospitality                                      $17,067             8%               $427                no                $69,234                 no                     1%                  1%
   Retail Trade                                     $33,359             7%               $834                yes              $135,324                 no                    12%                  8%
   Transportation and Warehousing                   $46,531             7%              $1,163               yes              $188,757                 no                    32%                 27%
   Finance and Insurance                            $69,872             6%              $1,747               yes              $283,442                 yes                   61%                 64%
   Admin and Waste Services                         $32,455             6%               $811                no               $131,656                 no                    11%                  7%
   Wholesale Trade                                  $65,700             5%              $1,643               yes              $266,518                 yes                   56%                 60%
   Management of Companies                          $88,196             4%              $2,205               yes              $357,774                 yes                   77%                 82%
   Construction                                     $49,671             4%              $1,242               yes              $201,495                 no                    36%                 32%
   Educational Services                             $34,709             3%               $868                yes              $140,800                 no                    14%                  9%
   Information                                      $62,696             3%              $1,567               yes              $254,332                 yes                   53%                 55%
   Other Services                                   $35,912             3%               $898                yes              $145,680                 no                    15%                 10%
   Real Estate                                      $47,609             2%              $1,190               yes              $193,130                 no                    33%                 29%
   Arts and Recreation                              $30,706             1%               $768                no               $124,561                 no                     8%                  5%
   Utilities                                        $89,750             1%              $2,244               yes              $364,078                 yes                   78%                 82%
   Mining                                           $91,939             1%              $2,298               yes              $372,958                 yes                   80%                 84%
   Natural Resources                                $33,862             0%               $847                yes              $137,364                 no                    12%                  8%

Source: US Census Bureau’s Longitudinal Employer‐Household Dynamics, Bureau of Labor Statistics Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (BLS QCEW), Multiple List Service (MLS), 2014 American Community Survey
        and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                                                                                     SECTION IV, PAGE 7
      APPENDIX B: HOUSING CHOICE SURVEY
      BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING 2016




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
Salt Lake City Live Work Survey
To better understand the housing choices and needs of Salt Lake City residents and those who
work in Salt Lake City but live elsewhere (in-commuters), the city fielded a Live Work Survey as
part of the Housing Plan. The survey was available in two forms: an extended version available
online and an abbreviated version offered in person or on paper at various community events.

The online survey was distributed through neighborhood associations and promoted through
the city’s communications department. The abbreviated paper survey was managed by a local
community engagement organization, Communities United (CU), and was made available to
residents living in West Salt Lake through community meetings and neighborhood activities
(school events, community and recreations centers, etc.). A total of 1,409 residents and 172 in-
commuters responded to the online live work survey. Another 259 residents and 76 in-
commuters completed the abbreviated paper survey.

Altogether, 1,668 residents and 248 in-commuters responded to the survey.

This report presents the findings of the survey effort and is organized around the following
topics:1

     Respondent characteristics—presents demographic and socioeconomic characteristics of
      resident and in-commuter survey respondents;

     Housing choice—discusses respondents’ current housing situation, housing preferences,
      desire to live in Salt Lake City (in-commuters), and plans to move;

     Resident housing needs—includes desired changes to home and neighborhood, housing
      costs, indicators of housing insecurity, experiences of housing discrimination, and
      accessibility needs of resident respondents;

     Millennial snapshot—provides an overview of housing preferences and needs among post-
      college millennial residents (aged 25-35);

     Paper survey results—presents the results of the abbreviated paper survey; and

     Summary of findings—summarizes the overarching themes and findings from the report.




1 The results from the paper survey are presented separately from the online survey due to differences in1) the survey

instruments, 2) different sampling methodologies, and 3) representation of resident groups.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                       LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 1
Respondent Characteristics
Respondents and the city. That the survey was open to anyone interested in participating
means that the results are based on non-probability sampling methods. Unlike a statistically
valid, random probability sample, the results from this survey are not necessarily representative
of all Salt Lake City residents or in-commuters.

Compared to Salt Lake City’s demographic characteristics, the survey data over-represent
homeowners (82% compared to 46% citywide), households with incomes greater than $50,000
(75% compared to 47% citywide), and householders aged 35 to 64 (61% compared to 48%
citywide). The data also over-represent—albeit slightly—householders with children under 18
living in the home (30% v. 24% for Salt Lake City as a whole).

The survey data slightly under-represent post-college millennial householders aged 25 to 34
(20% compared to 26% citywide).

Because the data are based on a non-probability sample, they are not weighted to match Salt
Lake City’s demographic profile. Findings are presented based on the responses received. While
the results should not necessarily be projected to Salt Lake City’s population, they provide
insights into how residents and in-commuters make complex housing decisions, their
preferences and attitudes, and can inform policy development.

Residents and in-commuters. Figure 1 compares resident and in-commuter survey
respondent demographic and socioeconomic characteristics. The typical Salt Lake City resident
participating in the survey:

    Is a homeowner (82%). Seventeen percent rent and 1 percent live with other adults,
     including parents, and are not paying rent or mortgage.

    Is a long-time resident of Salt Lake City. Most respondents have lived in the city for at least
     10 years (63%). Nearly half (45%) have lived in Salt Lake City for 20 years or more.

    Works in Salt Lake City (83%).

    Does not have children under 18 living in the home (70%).

    Is white (79%). One in ten respondents identified as a racial/ethnic minority and another
     one in ten declined to provide race/ethnicity.

Compared to resident respondents, in-commuters responding to the survey are more likely to be
middle-aged, have children living in the home and have a higher household income. In-
commuters are also less likely to be renters than residents.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                    LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 2
Figure 1.
                                                                                Residents   In-Commuters
Comparison of Resident
and In-Commuter Survey                Housing Tenure
Respondent Characteristics             Homeowner                                   82%          87%
                                       Renter                                      17%           8%
Note:
                                       Living with others but not paying rent       1%           4%
n=1409 residents and n=172 in-
commuters.                            Household Income
                                       Less than $25,000                            8%           2%
Source:                                $25,000 up to $50,000                       17%           8%
BBC Research & Consulting from 2016    $50,000 up to $75,000                       20%          14%
Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.
                                       $75,000 up to $100,000                      16%          25%
                                       $100,000 up to $150,000                     20%          26%
                                       $150,000 or more                            19%          26%

                                      Age
                                       Under 25                                     3%           1%
                                       25 to 34                                    20%          18%
                                       35 to 44                                    23%          32%
                                       45 to 54                                    17%          26%
                                       55 to 64                                    20%          16%
                                       65 and older                                17%           7%

                                      Children (under 18) living in home
                                       Yes                                         30%          54%
                                       No                                          70%          46%

                                      Race or Ethnicity
                                       White                                       79%          83%
                                       Hispanic                                     4%           2%
                                       Other minority                               7%           7%
                                       Decline to respond                          11%           8%


Housing Choice
Both residents and in-commuters shared the importance of different factors to their current
housing choice decision and discussed considerations for future moves.

Type of home and duration of residence. A substantial majority of both residents and in-
commuters live in single family homes—79 percent and 86 percent, respectively. Resident
respondents are more likely than in-commuters to live in apartments or condos but less likely to
live in townhomes.

As shown in Figure 2, 44 percent of resident respondents report living at their current address
for less than five years, compared to 37 percent of in-commuter respondents. However, an equal
proportion of renter and in-commuter respondents—22 percent—has lived at their current
address for 20 years or more.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                        LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 3
Figure 2.
Type of Housing and
Length of Time in
Current Residence
Note:
n=1,401 residents and n=168 in-
commuters.


Source:
BBC Research & Consulting from
2016 Salt Lake City Live Work
Survey.




Essential factors for selection of current residence. Figure 3 presents how essential
residents considered a number of factors to their decision to buy or rent their current home.
Factors were rated on a scale of zero to nine where zero is “not at all important” and nine is
“essential.” The figure shows the average rating for each factor.

Having the rent or mortgage fit into their budget was the most essential factor, on average,
affecting residents’ current housing decision, followed by having a short drive to shopping,
restaurants and entertainment, owning instead of renting, and feeling safe. Of less importance
was living with a known roommate, being close to quality schools, and having neighbors
different than themselves.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                  LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 4
Figure 3.
How important were the following factors to you when choosing your current home?




Note:    n ranges from 1,235 to 1,315.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.


Residents and in-commuters are highly and equally cost-conscious: Both groups placed the
highest importance on making sure housing costs fit within their budget. Compared to residents,
in-commuters are less-likely to value being close to work and retail, an urban environment,
walk- and bikeability, and having neighbors different than themselves.

In-commuters place more importance than residents on safety, having space both inside and
outside the home, and being close to quality schools.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                      LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 5
Desire to live in Salt Lake City. Residents and in-commuters shared their perspectives on the
desirability of living in Salt Lake City relative to surrounding communities.

Resident perspectives. Just 23 percent of Salt Lake City residents participating in the survey
considered living in other communities when searching for their current home. These included
Mill Creek, Holladay, Sandy, Murray, Bountiful and Cottonwood Heights—generally closer in
suburbs and/or areas with easy mountain access.

When asked what factor(s) encouraged them to choose Salt Lake City over other communities,
four primary themes emerged:
                                                                 “Short commute to work”
    Proximity to work or commute time;
                                                              “Preference to be downtown and
    Amenity location factors, such as                      near more diverse and locally owned
     neighborhood and being close to                        businesses - restaurants, shops, etc.”
     downtown;
                                                            “Political, economic, social cultures
    Culture and amenities (e.g., diversity, urban           and diversity fit with our views”
     lifestyle, restaurants and shopping); and               “Wanted to raise our kids around
                                                                   cultural diversity”
    Transportation options including
     walkability, bikeability and public transit.            “Multiple transportation options:
                                                              TRAX, bus, bike lanes, and even
Other common responses included schools—                     walking to work and recreation.”
both University and primary schools—proximity                  — Resident survey respondents
to family and friends, and affordability.

In-commuter perspectives. Most in-commuters (59%) considered Salt Lake City when making
their current housing choice. Among those who did not consider Salt Lake City, the most
                                              common reason was “I needed a bigger house than I
   “I needed a bigger house than I            could afford in Salt Lake City.” Other common
                                              reasons given for not considering Salt Lake City were
    could afford in Salt Lake City.”
                                              preference for rural or suburban environments,
    Top reason among in-commuters who         inability to afford desirable neighborhood in the city,
    did not consider living in Salt Lake City
                                              no desire to live in the city, and proximity to family.

Among in-commuters who used to live in Salt Lake City, the top two reasons for moving out of
the city were:

    “I wanted a bigger home;” (36%) and

    “I could not afford to buy in Salt Lake City” (28%).

Nearly two in three in-commuters would consider living in Salt Lake City in the future. When
asked what factor would be most important for them to consider relocating into Salt Lake City,
52 percent of respondents said affordability. This was far and above other primary factors, as
shown in Figure 4.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                      LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 6
Figure 4.
What is the most
important factor that
would cause you to
consider relocating
into Salt Lake City?
Note:
n=96 residents.


Source:
BBC Research & Consulting from
2016 Salt Lake City Live Work
Survey.




Overall, the preferences expressed by both residents and in-commuters suggest that housing
stock and affordability are key factors in the city’s effort to attract and retain residents,
particularly middle-aged householders with families.

Plans to move in the next five years. About the same proportion of residents as in-
commuters report that they plan to move in the next five years, as shown in Figure 5. The
greatest proportion of residents and in-commuters plan to move because they rent and want to
own. In-commuters are more likely to plan to move to shorten their commute time or to move to
an area that is either more urban or more rural. More than one quarter of residents expect to
move as a result of a job change—far more than the 3 percent of in-commuters.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                 LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 7
Figure 5.
Plans to Move in the Next Five Years and Why




Note:    n=608 residents and n=138 in-commuters.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.


Renter perspectives on homeownership. Sixty one percent of Salt Lake City renters
wanted to buy a home in the past five years and did not, as did 83 percent of in-commuters who
rent. Most had wanted to buy a detached single family home, although one in four desired
attached products like townhomes and condos. Over half did not buy a home because they could
not find an affordable home in their location of choice. Three of the top 10 factors renters


BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                      LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 8
identified as reasons why they did not buy a home in the past five years are related to the supply
side of the homeownership equation:

       52 percent could not find a home they could afford to buy in the desired location;

       16 percent could not find a home they wanted to buy in the desired location; and

       14 percent could not find the type of home they wanted to buy.

Figure 6.
What were the reasons why you did not buy a home? (Top Ten Responses)




Note:    n=143 resident renters who wanted to buy a home in the past five years.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.

Resident Housing Needs
This section discusses resident housing needs with a focus on desired changes to housing and
neighborhood, condition and repairs, housing costs and insecurity, discrimination and
accessibility.

Satisfaction and desired changes. Overall, Salt Lake City resident respondents are very
satisfied with their housing situation: 74 percent rated their level of satisfaction a seven or
higher on a nine-scale (where zero was “very dissatisfied” and nine was “very satisfied”).
Residents also indicated high levels of satisfaction with their neighborhood, with 70 percent of
respondents rating their satisfaction a seven or higher on the same nine-scale.

Even though highly satisfied, all residents were asked what they would change about their
housing situation and about their neighborhood if they could. Figure 7 displays the responses.
These are, for the most part, amenity preferences.

For their own housing situation, residents were most likely to want to remodel or add on to their
home. For their neighborhood, residents most desired increased safety, neighbors to do a better
job of keeping up their homes and fewer apartments/rentals in general. They also desired access
to transit and more affordable homes in their neighborhood.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                          LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 9
Figure 7.
Desired Changes to Housing Situation and Neighborhood




Note:    n=1,287.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                      LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 10
Repairs. Just over one-third (36%) of resident respondents said their home needed repairs they
could not afford. These repairs ranged from landscaping to complete plumbing and electrical
overhauls. Of those who indicated a need for repairs, 12 percent indicated the needed repairs
make their current home unsafe to live in.

Figure 8.
If your home needs repairs that you currently can't afford, please list the top 3 most needed
repairs.




Note:    n=468.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.


Housing costs. On average, resident renters responding to the survey spend about $1,100 per
month on rent. The average mortgage payment among resident respondents is $1,555; average
HOA fees are $272, and average utilities are $263. As shown in Figure 9, housing costs among in-
commuters are not materially different than housing costs reported by residents. It is also
interesting to note that average rental costs are approaching average mortgage costs, especially
for in-commuters.

Figure 9.
Monthly Housing Costs

                                                                                      Residents        In-Commuters

   Monthly rent                                                                        $1,107             $1,243
   Monthly mortgage payment (including insurance and property taxes)                   $1,555             $1,572
   Monthly Homeowners Association Fee (if applicable)                                    $272               $132
   Total Monthly utilities including water, sewer, electric and gas                      $263               $319

Note:    n ranges from 103 to 868 for residents and from 20 to 98 for in-commuters.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.


The survey also asked residents and in-commuters what they would do with the extra dollars if
their housing costs were 25 percent lower. The responses, shown in Figure 10, reveal the cost
conscious nature of both residents and in-commuters. Three of the top four resident responses
and three of the top five in-commuter responses were savings-related:



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                         LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 11
         55 percent of residents and 70 percent of in-commuters would save for retirement;

         48 percent of residents and 43 percent of in-commuters would save for emergencies; and

         16 percent of residents and 17 percent of in-commuters would save for a down payment on
          a house.

Figure 10.
If you spent 25%
less per month
on your housing,
what would you
do with those
extra dollars?
Note:
n=1,014 residents and
120 in-commuters.


Source:
BBC Research &
Consulting from 2016 Salt
Lake City Live Work
Survey.




Housing insecurity. Residents and in-commuters challenged by housing costs, changes in
employment or other factors that make it difficult to pay housing costs pursue different
strategies to afford their rent or housing. Nearly one in five residents report finding additional
employment and 12 percent have friends or relatives living with them, as shown in Figure 11.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                   LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 12
Figure 11.
Strategies Used by Some
Residents in Order to Pay Rent,
Mortgage or Other Housing Costs
Note:
n=1,228.


Source:
BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake
City Live Work Survey.


Some residents reduced their spending on basic needs in order to afford their rent or mortgage.
As shown in Figure 12, 13 percent of residents went without needed
medication/healthcare/dental care and 9 percent reduced their clothing budget. Among the
basic needs considered, residents and in-commuters were least likely to reduce spending on car
insurance and child care.

Figure 12.
In the past year, have
you/members of your household
had to reduce/go without any of
the following basic needs to
afford your rent/mortgage?
Note:
n=1,228.


Source:
BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake
City Live Work Survey.




Housing discrimination. Just six percent of resident respondents felt they had experienced
housing discrimination when looking for housing in Salt Lake City in the past five years. Another
five percent of respondents weren’t sure. The most common reason respondents provided for
perceived discrimination was having pets (although not a protected class under the Fair Housing
Act). Other reasons included sexual orientation (19%), age (17%), religion (15%), race (12%),
and smoking or drinking alcohol (11%. This is not a protected class but could be a proxy for
religious beliefs).




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 13
Figure 13.
Resident Experience with Housing Discrimination




Note:       n=1,296.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.


Accessibility. Fourteen percent of resident respondents indicated their household included a
person with some type of disability (physical, mental or developmental)—slightly higher than
the proportion of Salt Lake City residents that have a disability (10%). Most resident
respondents said their current house or apartment meets the accessibility needs of the member
with a disability; however, 23 percent of those with a disability said their house does not meet
their accessibility needs. The most common improvements needed were grab bars or other
bathroom improvements, handrails and ramps.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                      LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 14
Millennial Snapshot
Millennial residents are a focus of planning efforts in many communities—there is an
expectation that millennial housing choices may be markedly different than previous
generations. This section of the report provides a snapshot of post-college millennial
respondents (aged 25 to 35) to the online survey.

Characteristics. Figure 14 displays the characteristics of millennial respondents compared to
all respondents. Millennials are less likely to be owners and have a lower income distribution
than non-millennials.

Millennial residents are equally likely to have children in the home as non-millennial residents
(30%). In-commuting millennials are twice as likely to have children (61%) than millennials
living in the city and are also more likely to have children than other in-commuters (54%). In
this respect, in-commuting millennials look more like other in-commuters than they do resident
millennials.

Figure 14.
Post College Millennial Respondent Characteristics

                                                             Post College Millennials                                All Ages
                                                           Residents        In-Commuters                 Residents         In-Commuters

   Housing Tenure
    Homeowner                                                  69%                 70%                       82%                87%
    Renter                                                     29%                 26%                       17%                 8%
    Living with others but not paying rent                      1%                  4%                        1%                 4%

   Household Income
    Less than $25,000                                           8%                  0%                        8%                2%
    $25,000 up to $50,000                                      22%                 18%                       17%                8%
    $50,000 up to $75,000                                      23%                 23%                       20%                14%
    $75,000 up to $100,000                                     17%                 32%                       16%                25%
    $100,000 up to $150,000                                    21%                 14%                       20%                26%
    $150,000 or more                                            9%                 14%                       19%                26%

   Children (under 18) living in home
    Yes                                                        30%                 61%                       30%                54%
    No                                                         70%                 39%                       70%                46%

Note:    n=250 millennial residents, n=23 millennial in-commuters, n=1409 total residents and n=172 total in-commuters..
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.


Important factors housing choice. In many ways, millennial residents are similar to other
residents in the factors that were most important in choosing their current home. They are
similarly—if not more—cost-conscious (most essential factor with an average rating of 8.2 on a
9.0 scale) and value proximity to shopping, feeling safe and having access to parks and trails.
Millennial residents place more importance than other residents on proximity to work and less
importance on owning versus renting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                      LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 15
Though not shown in the figure, in-commuting millennials place less importance than resident
millennials on distance to shopping/entertainment and work, being in an urban location, walk-
and bikability, style or architecture of home, ability to have pets and proximity to trails and open
space. In-commuting millennials place more importance than resident millennials on
affordability (though both groups considered this the top factor), crime, owning instead of
renting, ease of parking, having space both inside and outside the home and proximity to good
schools.

Overall, the factors important to millennial residents of the city were more similar to the factors
valued by other city-dwellers than to other millennials who are in-commuters.

Figure 15.
How important were the following factors to you when choosing your current home? (Post
College Millennials)




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                  LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 16
Note:    n ranges from 1,235 to 1,315 for all residents and from 244 to 252 for adult millennials.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.


Plans to move. Thirty nine percent of post-college millennials living in Salt Lake City plan to
move in the next five years. Top reasons among those who do plan to move are a desire to own a
home (44%) and expectations of better finances to improve their housing situation (47%). One
in five resident millennials said they currently live in attached housing but would like to move to
a detached single family home in the next five years. For post-college millennials to stay in the
city, the market will need to provide affordable ownership options—including single family
detached homes—in walkable and/or transit oriented neighborhoods.

Figure 16.
Plans to Move in the Next Five Years and Why, Post-college millennials




Note:    n=608 all residents and n=213 post-college millennials.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.


Sixty one percent of post-college millennial renters living in the city wanted to buy a home in the
past five years and did not. Figure 17shows the reasons those millennial renters did not


BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                            LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 17
purchase a home when choosing their current residence. The top five reasons are all related to
affordability—the top two were specific to downpayment affordability:

       76 percent didn’t have enough saved for a downpayment;

       73 percent couldn’t afford the downpayment;

       56 percent have student loans or other debt that is too high;

       54 percent could not find a home they could afford to buy in the desired location; and

       44 percent could not afford the monthly payments.

Figure 17.
What were the reasons why you did not buy a home? (Post-college millennials’ Top Ten
Responses)




Note:    n=41 resident post-college millennial renters who wanted to buy a home in the past five years.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.


Desired changes. Most post-college millennials express satisfaction with their housing
situation and neighborhood, though their level of satisfaction lags other residents:

       62 percent of post-college millennials rated their level of satisfaction a seven or higher on a
        nine-scale (where zero was “very dissatisfied” and nine was “very satisfied”), compared to
        74 percent of all residents; and

       67 percent rated satisfaction with their neighborhood a seven or higher, compared to 74
        percent of all residents.

The changes post-college millennials desired are shown in Figure 18. Post-college millennials
wanted to buy a home instead of renting (17%) and remodel their current home (17%). The top
neighborhood changes were similar to the desires of all residents: increase safety (41%) and
have neighbors that do a better job keeping up their homes (32%).



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                 LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 18
Figure 18.
Desired Changes to Housing Situation and Neighborhood




Note:    n=251.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                      LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 19
Housing costs. On average, housing costs for post-college millennials were lower than other
resident respondents. As shown in Figure 19, average rent among millennial residents was $961
per month and the average mortgage was $1,360.

Figure 19.
Monthly Housing Costs of Millennials

                                                                                                       All        Adult Millennial
                                                                                                    Residents       Residents

   Monthly rent                                                                                       $1,107            $961
   Monthly mortgage payment (including insurance and property taxes)                                  $1,555           $1,360
   Monthly Homeowners Association Fee (if applicable)                                                   $272             $246
   Total Monthly utilities including water, sewer, electric and gas                                     $263             $209

Note:    n ranges from 103 to 868 for all residents and from 23 to 197 for post-college millennial residents.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.


If their housing costs were 25 percent lower, post-college millennial residents are most likely to
use the money to save for emergencies (54%), save for retirement (43%), save for a
downpayment (28%) or take a vacation (28%). Their responses demonstrate a similar level of
cost sensitivity as other residents. Even so, millennial residents are more likely to spend the
extra dollars on food, entertainment, clothes and household goods than residents of other ages.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                       LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 20
Figure 20.
If you spent 25%
less per month
on your housing,
what would you
do with those
extra dollars?
Note:
n=1,014 all residents and
251 post-college
millennials.


Source:
BBC Research &
Consulting from 2016 Salt
Lake City Live Work
Survey.




Paper Survey
As discussed in the introduction, the city’s survey effort also included an abbreviated paper
survey which was made available to residents living in West Salt Lake through community
meetings and neighborhood activities (school events, community and recreations centers, etc.).
The survey was offered in both English and Spanish. A total 259 residents and 76 in-commuters
completed the abbreviated paper survey.

Demographic characteristics. Compared to the respondents of the online survey,
respondents to the paper survey had lower incomes, were more likely to be renters and were
more likely to be Hispanic or Latino/a.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                              LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 21
Figure 21.
Paper Survey Respondent Characteristics

                                                            Abbreviated Paper Survey                    Extended Online Survey
                                                           Residents       In-Commuters              Residents        In-Commuters

   Housing Tenure
    Homeowner                                                  31%                29%                     82%                87%
    Renter                                                     65%                60%                     17%                 8%
    Living with others but not paying rent                      3%                11%                      1%                 4%

   Household Income
    Less than $25,000                                          57%                61%                      8%                    2%
    $25,000 up to $50,000                                      32%                28%                     17%                    8%
    $50,000 up to $75,000                                       8%                 8%                     20%                14%
    $75,000 up to $100,000                                      2%                 3%                     16%                25%
    $100,000 up to $150,000                                     0%                 0%                     20%                26%
    $150,000 or more                                            0%                 0%                     19%                26%

   Race or Ethnicity
    White                                                      11%                11%                     79%                83%
    Hispanic                                                   82%                77%                      4%                 2%
    Other minority                                              5%                 8%                      7%                 7%
    Decline to respond                                          2%                 3%                     11%                 8%

Note:     n=259 paper survey residents, n=62 paper survey in-commuters, n=1409 online residents and n=172 online in-commuters.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.


Housing costs. On average, paper survey respondents who are resident renters spent $1,153
on monthly housing costs and those who are resident owners spent $1,489 on monthly housing
costs (including rent/mortgage, utilities, insurance, etc). In-commuter housing costs were
similar ($1,201 on average for renters and $1,413 on average for owners).

These estimated housing costs are surprisingly high given the relatively low incomes of most
respondents. It may be that many of the paper survey respondents are cost burdened. Indeed,
the housing costs of resident respondents to the online survey are only slightly higher on
average, despite having substantially higher incomes (see Figure 22).

Figure 22.
Monthly Housing Costs,
Paper and Online Survey
Resident Respondents
Note:
n=199 paper survey renters, n=101 paper
survey owners, n=189 online renters and
n=794 online owners.


Source:
BBC Research & Consulting from 2016
Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.



Discrimination. Respondents to the paper survey were asked if they had ever experienced
discrimination related to renting or buying housing and if so, what was the reason. Fifteen


BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                    LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 22
percent of resident respondents indicated they had experienced discrimination—more than
twice the proportion of respondents to the online survey that felt they had experienced
discrimination in the last five years (6%).

Among those that answered “yes,” the top reasons were being an immigrant (50%), being
Hispanic (47%) and race (34%).

Figure 23.
Resident Experience with Housing Discrimination, Paper Survey Respondents




Note:       n=249.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.


Accessibility. Just six percent of resident respondents to the paper survey indicated they or a
member of their household have a disability, compared to 14 percent of online survey
respondents. One-third of those that said “yes” indicated their home does not need their current
accessibility needs (compared to just 23% of online survey respondents). Thus, paper survey
respondents are less likely to have a disability (or a household member with a disability) but
those that do are more likely to need accessibility improvements.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                      LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 23
Figure 24.
Disability and Accessibility




Note:    n=259.
Source: BBC Research & Consulting from 2016 Salt Lake City Live Work Survey.


Although the paper survey was not as detailed as the online survey it does highlight housing
needs among predominately low income and Hispanic households:

       Affordable rental and ownership housing options;

       Fair housing education and outreach to address perceived housing discrimination; and

       Accessibility improvements for households including a person with a disability.

Summary
Key themes and findings from the survey effort are summarized below:

       Residents and in-commuters are highly and equally cost-conscious: Both groups placed the
        highest importance on making sure housing costs fit within their budget. Location, tenure
        and safety were also important considerations in their current housing choice.

       Compared to residents, in-commuters are less-likely to value being close to work and retail,
        an urban environment, walk- and bikeability, and having neighbors different than
        themselves. In-commuters place more importance than residents on safety, having space
        both inside and outside the home, and being close to quality schools.

       Resident respondents chose Salt lake City over surrounding communities based on
        proximity to work, locational amenities, culture and transportation options (transit and
        walk- and bikability).

       A high proportion of in-commuters considered living in the city or would consider it in the
        future. Among in-commuters, affordability and home size were the key factors in
        determining their desire and ability to live in Salt Lake City.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                      LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 24
   Housing costs among in-commuters are not materially different than housing costs
    reported by residents. For both residents and in-commuters rental costs are approaching
    mortgage costs.

   A small but significant proportion of residents identified housing condition as a critical
    need in Salt Lake City. Four percent of all resident respondents have needed repairs that
    make their home unsafe and 3 percent of resident respondents need accessibility
    improvements to accommodate a household member with a disability.

   Post-college millennial residents are strikingly similar to non-millennial residents in regard
    to their housing preferences—moreso than they are to their millennial counterparts who
    live outside but work in the city. Resident millennials are similarly—if not more—cost-
    conscious as other residents and value proximity to shopping, restaurants, entertainment
    and work, feeling safe and having access to parks and trails.

   Millennials are more likely than other residents to be renters and are more likely to move in
    the next five years, many with the hope of purchasing a home. For post-college millennials
    to stay in the city, the market will need to provide affordable ownership options—including
    single family detached homes—in walkable and/or transit oriented neighborhoods.

   Based on the results of the paper survey, lower income, minority residents have acute
    housing needs related to affordability, accessibility and discrimination in rental and for-sale
    housing markets.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                 LIVE WORK SURVEY, PAGE 25
      APPENDIX C: SALT LAKE CITY’S DOWNTOWN
      RENTAL MARKET: PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE
       KEM C. GARDNER POLICY INSTITUTE




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
Research Brief
October 2016




Salt Lake City's Downtown Rental Market:
Past, Present, and Future
Authored by: James Wood | Ivory-Boyer Senior Fellow | Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute


Highlights                                                                   Background
•   In 2010, after 100 years of development, the num-                        The development of rental housing in downtown Salt
    ber of downtown rental units in Salt Lake City to-                       Lake City has always been prone to periods of intense
    taled 5,200. By 2020, that number is expected to                         activity followed by years of inactivity. Downtown, for
    double to 10,000 units and the downtown popula-                          the purposes of this research brief, includes the area
    tion will grow to 20,000, about the same popula-                         from approximately 700 East to 700 West and from 400
    tion as Payson or Brigham City, in an area of 1.65                       South to North Temple.i A look back at apartment de-
    square miles.                                                            velopment in this area shows that prior to the early
                                                                             20th century, housing in downtown was limited to de-
•   Since 1910, the downtown rental market has seen                          tached single-family units. Tenement and row housing,
    several apartment development booms but the                              common features in some downtown markets, were
    size of the current boom is unprecedented. Nearly                        never part of the housing patterns of Salt Lake City. The
    1,900 units have been completed in the past four                         first multifamily rental units in downtown were com-
    years. The current vacancy rate of these units is less                   pleted around 1910. Over the next few years, some no-
    than two percent. New downtown apartments have                           table apartment communities were developed along
    the highest rents in the state; the average rent for a                   South Temple and North Temple, including the Kens-
    studio unit is $1,000, $1,100 for a one-bedroom                          ington, Buckingham, Hillcrest, and Eagle Gate Apart-
    unit, and $1,450 for a two-bedroom, two-bath unit.                       ments. By 1920, the downtown rental inventory had
•   The magnitude of the current boom combined with                          reached about 1,000 units.
    very high rental rates seems like a recipe for an                        Following a six-year break, development resumed in
    overbuilt market. However, as of October 2016,                           1926. Over the next four years, several new apartment
    there are no signs of a distressed market; vacancy                       projects were completed. Most were small apartment
    rates are low, rental rates are increasing, and ab-                      communities, less than 35 units, and by 1930 the rental
    sorption rates are strong. Demand for downtown                           inventory had increased to around 1,400 units.
    rentals is supported by a unique set of locational
    and demographic advantages.                                              This pre-Depression apartment boom was followed by
                                                                             a long, quiet 50-year interlude with no new large apart-
•   Over the next three to four years, vacancy rates will                    ment developments in downtown. During these years,
    increase as an additional 3,000 units are complet-                       the rental inventory slowly increased through the con-
    ed. The doubling of the rental inventory by 2020                         version of some owner-occupied units, to renter-occu-
    could dampen market conditions and investment                            pied housing units and the development of small scale
    opportunities and bring the current boom to a                            rental housing.
    close.



          Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute   I 411 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 I 801-585-5618 I gardner.utah.edu
                               AN INITIATIVE OF THE DAVID ECCLES SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
By the late 1970s, the downtown housing market cap-              units is 5,044, just 165 units shy of doubling the down-
tured the interest of developers as home building in             town rental inventory in ten years. A note on the pro-
the suburbs was threatened by serious overbuilding.              posed projects: they are almost certain to be devel-
Up to this time, downtown multifamily housing had                oped. All the developers are first rate and have local
been exclusively rental housing. A new concept of                development experience.
owner occupied multifamily housing (condominiums),               By 2020, the number of renter households in down-
however, was about to be tested by the 337-unit Amer-            town Salt Lake City will exceed 10,000. Add the 425
ican Towers condominium project, which at the time               condominiums at City Creek to the existing owner oc-
was by far the largest housing development in down-              cupied inventory and the downtown housing market
town’s history. American Towers, along with several              will have close to 11,700 occupied dwelling units. The
other condominium projects developed at about the                downtown population will increase from 10,700 in
same time, had very mixed success; in some cases, ab-            2010 to over 20,000 by 2020, equivalent to the popula-
sorption took several years. In sharp contrast, the apart-       tion about the size of Payson or Brigham City in just
ments developed during this period were well received            1.65 miles of downtown Salt Lake City.
by the market. Some 600 new rental units were devel-
oped. Half of the new units were developed by Zions              Table 1
Securities (now Property Reserve Inc.), the commercial           Population and Housing in Downtown Salt Lake City
real estate division of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints. By 1985, this period of apartment devel-                                           2010        2020 forecast
opment had ended.
                                                                  Population                         10,703             20,500
                                                                  Households                          6,097             11,695
It took almost 15 years before developers in the late
                                                                  Average Household Size
1990s returned to the downtown market. When they                                                        1.75               1.75
                                                                  (persons)
did, both condominium and apartment development                   Owner Occupied Units                  888              1,500
took off. Condominium development was concentrat-                 Renter Occupied Units               5,209             10,195
ed in remodeling and rehabilitation of existing build-            Total Occupied units                6,097             11,695
ings rather than new construction while apartment de-
                                                                  Percent of Renter
velopment included three very large rental projects:                                                    85%                87%
                                                                  Households
Northgate Apartments at Gateway (340 units); Brigham             Source: U.S. Census for 2010 and forecast, Kem C. Gardner Policy
Apartments (337 units); and the Palladio Apartments              Institute, University of Utah
(250 units). This building boom, which extended into
the 2000s, and was stimulated by the 2002 Olympic
Winter Games, pushed the downtown rental inventory
                                                                 Is the Downtown Rental Market
to 5,200 units by the 2010 Census. It had taken roughly          Overbuilt?
100 years and four periods of concentrated apartment
development for the downtown rental inventory to                 The size of the current apartment boom is unprece-
reach 5,200 units. In addition to the rental units, there        dented. In just 10 years, nearly as many apartment
were almost 900 owner-occupied units downtown by                 units will be developed downtown as were developed
2010. The 2010 Census reported a total downtown                  in the previous 100 years. The boom, however, has
population of 10,703. The average household size was             brought much higher rental rates. The 15 apartment
small at 1.75 persons and rental housing accounted for           projects completed since 2011 have the following aver-
85 percent of occupied housing units (see Table 1).              age rents: studio $1,000, one bedroom $1,100, two-bed-
                                                                 room two-bath $1,450. There are no-three bedroom
Since the 2010 Census, almost 4,000 new units in large           units in the recently completed projects. The rents do
downtown apartment projects have been added to the               not include the charges for a media package, sewer,
inventory; 1,864 completed units and 1,991 under con-            water, trash, or parking fees, which could easily add an-
struction units (see Tables 2 and 3). In addition, there         other $150 to $200 to the base rent.
are another 1,179 units proposed that will be built over
                                                                 The historic magnitude of the current boom, combined
the next two to three years. The total number of com-
                                                                 with very high rental rates, seems like a ready-made
pleted, under construction, and proposed downtown
                                                                 recipe for an overbuilt market. The top-end rental rates

I N F O R M E D   D E C I S I O N S TM                       2                                                    gardner.utah.edu
are equivalent to the mortgage payment on the medi-             are “nonfamily, not living alone and with the house-
an priced home ($290,000) in Salt Lake County; surpris-         holder 18 to 34 years” has increased annually at a six
ingly, the vacancy rate in the 15 new projects (1,864           percent growth rate in Salt Lake City, an increase of
units) is less than two percent. Furthermore, the ab-           3,000 households. For roommates who are single,
sorption rates of some of the projects under construc-          young professionals, and working downtown, the cost
tion indicate demand is still strong in the third quarter       of housing can be shared, making downtown living
of 2016.                                                        much less financially intimidating.

The market will be seriously tested in the next two             One more favorable demographic trend is the increase
years with the completion of the under construction             in net in-migration. From 2009 to 2014, net in-migra-
projects and the addition of the proposed projects.             tion statewide never exceeded 11,000 individuals, but
Probably the most interesting test case will be the             in 2015, it jumped to 21,300 and is projected to aver-
nearly 1,000 units under construction by Salt Develop-          age 32,000 over the next four years. Conservatively, at
ment north of Gateway: Hardware Villages’ 470 units             least one-third of these in-migrants will locate in Salt
and 4th West Apartments’ 498 units. These two projects          Lake County, and some will be attracted to the down-
will have the highest quality and the highest priced            town rental market, due to the nearness of employ-
units in the state. Rents will be over two dollars a            ment and life style considerations boosting demand
square foot, or $2,000 per month for a typical two-bed-         for downtown rentals.
room unit. Using the typical housing cost to income
ratio of 30 percent, the renter of a $2,000 apartment           Location is probably the greatest and most obvious ad-
would need at least $80,000 in income to afford a unit          vantage of downtown living. Proximity to public trans-
at Hardware Village. According to the 2015 American             portation, restaurants, shopping opportunities, cultur-
Community Survey, 22,500 renters in Salt Lake County            al amenities, nightlife, and walking distance to 75,000
have incomes of at least $80,000, or 20 percent of all          jobs makes for a unique rental market. Salt Lake City’s
renters. The renter pool certainly looks deep enough in         Central Business District is the largest concentrated job
terms of income to support the development of high-             market in the state. Four out of five employees in down-
priced rental units, but of course the key question is          town work in office settings at jobs with an average pay
preference and suitability. How many of these high in-          of $52,000. This proximity to a large base of job oppor-
come renters want or can (family size considerations)           tunities with above average pay is integral to the suc-
live in a two-bedroom two-bath unit in downtown Salt            cess of downtown rental housing.
Lake?                                                           Will the doubling of the downtown rental inventory in
Every renter faces three primary considerations in their        10 years lead to an overbuilt market? First, a little con-
decision to rent: cost, configuration (size, bedrooms,          text may help. In 2015, the Salt Lake County rental mar-
space), and location. The cost of renting downtown, at          ket had about 126,000 occupied rental units, only 7,000
least in the newer projects, excludes about 80 percent          of these units were located downtown; not quite six
of the renters in Salt Lake County. The configuration of        percent of the county’s rental inventory. Countywide
downtown rental units is a bit friendlier to renter             the vacancy rate is about three percent while down-
households. Sixty percent of all renter households in           town the rate is less than two percent. Rental rates for
Salt Lake County are one and two-person households.             one and two-bedroom units in newer downtown proj-
These smaller households are a deep market and well             ects are 30 percent higher than similar units in the sub-
matched for configurations of studio, one, and two              urban market. Two thousand of the 6,700 apartment
bedroom units.                                                  units presently under construction countywide are in
                                                                the downtown market, and 1,200 of the 7,300 apart-
Another factor affecting market depth and related to            ment units proposed countywide are downtown.
configuration is the relatively rapid growth of “nonfa-
mily renter households”, or unrelated roommates. This           The recent surge in downtown apartment develop-
household type—no children present—does not have                ment is part of a larger apartment boom, a boom that
the configuration concerns of a family household. A             extends throughout Salt Lake County. The downtown
two-bedroom two-bath apartment is suitable. Since               market will face some competition from the large num-
2000, the number of households with individuals that            ber of under construction and proposed units in the
                                                                county’s suburban areas as well as the several hundred

I N F O R M E D   D E C I S I O N S TM                      3                                               gardner.utah.edu
units on the periphery of the downtown market, but              destabilized nor suffer double-digit vacancy rates or
the fundamental advantages of a downtown location               falling rents. But a doubling of the rental inventory in
and favorable demographic trends will effectively off-          roughly 10 years will likely dampen market conditions
set much of the competitive headwinds. Employment               and investment opportunities. By 2020, the current
opportunities will continue to grow with development            boom will very likely recede and take its place as the
of new office, retail, and commercial space. One exam-          fifth period of downtown rental market expansion
ple is the completion of downtown’s newest office               since 1910.
building (462,000 square feet) at 111 South Main, which
should increase office employment by as much as 1,000           Table 2
jobs over the next few years. Demographically, the in-          Apartment Projects Developed in Downtown Salt
crease in non-related households (roommates), higher            Lake City (2011-2015)
levels of net in-migration, as well as the growing num-
                                                                                                     Year       Number of
ber of individuals in the prime age group for renting            Apartment Community
                                                                                                     Built        Units
(18-34 years), bodes well for the apartment market in
                                                                 Seasons at City Creek                 2011             176
general. Nearly half of all renters in Salt Lake County
                                                                 City Creek Landing                    2011             111
are between 18-34 years old and this age group is ex-
                                                                 Eastside Apartments                   2011             180
pected to grow by five percent from 2015 to 2020, an
                                                                 Rendon Terrace (tax credit)           2011              70
increase of 17,000 individuals.ii
                                                                 Wasatch Advantage                     2012             160
The previous four periods of apartment development               Citifront II                          2012              91
have typically increased the rental inventory by at least        644 City Station                      2012             132
50 percent. But no previous expansion compares in rel-           The Lotus                             2012              84
ative or absolute terms to the present boom. In the two          Cityscape                             2013             122
most recent expansions (early 1980s and early 2000s),            Liberty Gateway                       2013             160
new apartment developments were very successful                  Newhouse                              2015              61
and overbuilding was not an issue. In the current ex-            Encore                                2015             220
pansion, as noted, a total of 5,000 units will be added          Seasons at Library Square             2015             119
to the market. So far, 2,000 units have been completed           Seasons on the Boulevard              2015              92
and quickly absorbed by the market and the vacancy               North Sixth (tax credit)              2015              86
rate is at a low of two percent.                                 Total                                                1,864
                                                                Source: Ivory-Boyer Construction Database, Kem C. Gardner Policy
As the remaining 3,000 units reach the market over the
                                                                Institute
next four years, the vacancy rate downtown will in-
crease. But how much will vacancy rates increase? Even          Table 3
if only 85 percent (2,550 units) of the remaining new           Apartment Projects Under Construction in
units were rapidly absorbed, the vacancy rate in the            Downtown Salt Lake City, 2015
downtown market would still be under seven percent.
                                                                       Apartment Community                       Units
Rental rates are likely more vulnerable to the building
boom than occupancy rates. As vacancy rates increase             Fourth West Apartments                                    498
to more normal and healthier levels, developers and              Hardware Village                                          470
owners will be less aggressive with their rental rate in-        Liberty Crest                                             177
creases and may offer concessions to new renters such            360 Apartments                                            151
as reduced deposit and/or reduced rent.                          Alta Gateway                                              264
                                                                 The Bonneville                                            158
A snapshot of the downtown apartment market in Oc-
                                                                 616 Apartments                                            273
tober 2016 does not show an overbuilt market; rental
                                                                 Total                                                   1,991
rates are increasing, vacancy rates are very low, and ab-
                                                                Source: Ivory-Boyer Construction Database, Kem C. Gardner Policy
sorption of new units is strong. Over the next three to
                                                                Institute
four years, vacancy rates will increase as an additional
3,000 units are completed but the market will not be


I N F O R M E D   D E C I S I O N S TM                      4                                                    gardner.utah.edu
Figure 1: Map of Downtown Housing Market Study Area




I N F O R M E D   D E C I S I O N S TM                5   gardner.utah.edu
Endnotes
i. As defined in this research brief, downtown Salt Lake City includes approximately the area from 700 East to 700 West,
400 South to North Temple (see Figure 1). This area includes census tracts 1019, 1021, 1025, part of 1140, part of 1011.01,
and part of 1011.2.

ii. The projected increase in the 18-34 year age group for Salt Lake County was estimated from statewide population
projections published by the Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute. In both the 2000 and 2010 Census, the number of individ-
uals in the 18-34 year age group in Salt Lake County was 37 percent of the statewide count of individuals in that age
group. This 37 percent share was applied to the 2020 statewide population projections by age to derive the number of
18-34 year old individuals in Salt Lake County in 2020.




I N F O R M E D   D E C I S I O N S TM                      6                                                gardner.utah.edu
ADVISORY BOARD
Advisory Board members provide stra-               Ken Bullock                                       Jill Remington Love
tegic direction to the institute and help          Wilford Clyde                                     Brad Rencher
establish it as an enduring community              Sophia M. DiCaro                                  Josh Romney
asset that assists elected officials, busi-        Lisa Eccles                                       Charles W. Sorenson
ness and community leaders, and the                Spencer P. Eccles                                 James Lee Sorenson
public make informed decisions.                    Matt Eyring                                       Vicki Varela
Conveners                                          Kem C. Gardner                                    Ruth V. Watkins
Michael O. Leavitt                                 Christian Gardner                                 Ted Wilson
Mitt Romney                                        Matthew S. Holland                                Natalie Gochnour, Director
                                                   Clark Ivory                                       Ex Officio
Board                                              Ron Jibson
Scott Anderson, Co-Chair                                                                             Senator Orrin Hatch
                                                   Mike S. Leavitt                                   Governor Gary Herbert
Gail Miller, Co-Chair                              Vivian S. Lee
Doug Anderson                                                                                        Speaker Greg Hughes
                                                   Kimberly Gardner Martin                           Senate President Wayne Niederhauser
Deborah Bayle                                      Ann Millner
Lane Beattie                                                                                         Mayor Ben McAdams
                                                   Cristina Ortega                                   Representative Brian King
Cynthia A. Berg                                    Jason Perry
Roger Boyer                                                                                          Senator Gene Davis
                                                   Taylor Randall


STAFF AND FACULTY ADVISORS
Natalie Gochnour, Director                         DJ Benway, Research Analyst                       Shelley Kruger, Accounting and
Jennifer Robinson, Associate Director              Anna Bergevin, Research Associate                   Finance Manager
James A. Wood, Ivory-Boyer                         Cathy Chambless, Senior Research                  Jennifer Leaver, Research Analyst
  Senior Fellow                                      Associate                                       Sara McCormick, Senior Research
Dianne Meppen, Director of                         John C. Downen, Senior Research                     Associate
  Survey Research                                    Analyst                                         Levi Pace, Research Analyst
Pamela S. Perlich, Director of                     Ken Embley, Senior Research Associate             Nicholas Thiriot, Communications
  Demographic Research                             Emily Harris, Demographic Analyst                   Specialist
Juliette Tennert, Director of                      Michael T. Hogue, Senior Research                 Effie Johnson Van Noy, Utah State
  Economic and Public Policy Research                Statistician                                      Data Center Coordinator
Adam Meirowitz, Faculty Advisor                    Mike Hollingshaus, Demographer                    Natalie Young, Research Analyst
Matt Burbank, Faculty Advisor                      Colleen Larson, Administrative
Samantha Ball, Research Associate                    Manager




          Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute   I 411 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 I 801-585-5618 I gardner.utah.edu
                               AN INITIATIVE OF THE DAVID ECCLES SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
      APPENDIX D: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
      FINANCE WORKING GROUP REPORT & 			
      RECOMMENDATIONS




Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
Growing Salt Lake: 2018-2022
    SALT LAKE CITY HOUSING AND NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT




   AFFORDABLE HOUSING                           APRIL

FINANCE WORKING GROUP         20
   REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS 16
    TABLE OF CONTENTS


1   INTRODUCTION             PAGE 1



2   GLOSSARY                 PAGE 3



3   FINDINGS                 PAGE 6



4   RECOMMENDATIONS          PAGE 8




5   POLICY RECOMMENDATIONS   PAGE 9



6   INCENTIVES               PAGE 11




7   FUNDING RESOURCES        PAGE 13




8   STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS    PAGE 16




    ADDENDUM                 PAGE 17
 1         INTRODUCTION



                         In 2013, Housing and Neighborhood Development (HAND)
                         identified a gap of 8,240 rental apartment units for those at
                         40% or below the area median income of Salt Lake County. In
                         2016, updated numbers revealed a slightly smaller gap of
                         approximately 7,600 units however the decrease is a result of
                         a growth income level and not additional housing units. Salt
                         Lake City renters are cost burdened with half paying more
                         than 30% of their income on housing costs; more
                         troublesome is that a quarter of renters in Salt Lake City are
                         paying more than 50% of their income toward housing costs.

                         Salt Lake City has seen a market rate multifamily boom with
                         rents at all-time highs and vacancy rates at historic lows. Yet
                         affordability remains an issue in the city despite the increase
                         in new units. A projected multifamily pipeline created by
                         HAND staff shows a healthy number of new units coming to
                         market over the next few years, with a good number targeted
                         to those with low incomes; however, even with these new
                         units, there remains a large gap in Salt Lake City’s affordable
                         housing market.

                         One of the predominant impediments to the creation of
                         affordable housing is the lack of funding resources available
                         to the for-profit and non-profit housing development
                         communities. The primary sources for funding construction of
                         new or rehabilitation of existing housing consist of 4% and
                         9% Low Income Housing Tax Credits and other gap funding
                         sources that include the State’s Olene Walker Housing Trust
                         Fund and the City’s Housing Trust Fund. Other federal
                         sources include HUD financing tools such as a 221(d)4,
                         Section 8 vouchers, and federal grants such as HOME and
                         Community Development Block Grants. While tax credits are
                         a useful tool they are very competitive and may require the
                         developer to take on more expensive debt thus requiring




SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS       |        1
higher rents. Funding from federal grants, such as     THE PROCESS
CDBG and HOME, has been reduced over the past
ten years and also as stringent restrictions.          The group met over a two month period for a total of
                                                       six meetings during which time they identified a
Understanding the difficulties of funding affordable   number of tools and then developed financial pro
housing, HAND created a Finance Working Group          formas on specific case studies using those tools.
comprised of for-profit and non-profit developers,     The agenda was as follows:
CRA lending institutions, representatives from Utah
Housing Corporation and the National Development       Meeting 1 – Discussed meeting schedule, goals, and
Council, and Housing Trust Fund Board members          expectations
who met over a two month period with the objective
to identify possible financing tools and policy        Meeting 2 – Created and discussed list of possible
recommendations. These include potential funding       financing and policy tools
sources on city, county, and statewide levels and
changes to current city ordinances and policies to     Meeting 3 – Reviewed Case Study 1: Sugar House
incentivize and help finance the large gap in          development
affordable housing.
                                                       Meeting 4 – Presentation from UTA regarding
The group understands that to see an increase in       Transit Oriented Development; reviewed Case Study
affordable housing in the city, that new funding       2: High Opportunity Area; reviewed Case Study 3:
sources must be created in conjunction with            Small Scale Acquisition
changes to City policies and ordinances.
                                                       Meeting 5 – Presentation and discussion of
WORKING GROUP MEMBERS                                  recommended solutions

Steven Akerlow - Morgan Stanley                        Meeting 6 – Joint meeting between Finance Working
Joni Clark - Salt Lake CAP                             Group and Non-Profit Housing Strategy Group to
Irena Edwards - Key Bank and Housing Trust Fund        gather input on solutions and gained consensus on
        Board member                                   recommendations
Ryan Hackett - Utah Non-Profit Housing Corp
Michael Lohr - Goldman Sachs                           The Housing Finance Working group recommends
Jeff Nielsen - Wasatch Development Group               that the Housing Trust Fund Board, Mayor Biskupski
Claudia O’Grady - Utah Housing Corporation             and the Salt Lake City Council endeavor to explore
Ali Oliver - UTA and Housing Trust Fund Board          the following recommendations as possible
        member                                         solutions for the affordable housing shortage in Salt
Chris Parker - Giv Group                               Lake City. Affordable housing requires a long-term
Amy Rowland - National Development Council             strategy with some short-term solutions that make
Marion Willey - Utah Non-Profit Housing Corp           building, acquiring, and preserving units actionable
                                                       and sustainable. The group presents these
Salt Lake City Staff included: Mike Akerlow, Melissa   recommendations with the understanding that
Jensen, Sean Murphy, Todd Reeder, Tammy                public input, feasibility, and detailed analysis of
Hunsaker, Marina Scott                                 impact is further required.




                SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS       |        2
                  2           GLOSSARY



AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEFINITIONS                           AFFORDABILITY RENT FORMULA: The industry
                                                         standard for calculating affordable rents according
The following list of terms is by no means inclusive     to area median income. The formula uses the
but serves as a reference for informed discussion.       published income limit tables from HUD with a
The term “affordable housing” truly means housing        combination of FMR. For example, a family of 3 at
that is affordable for anyone. Categories within         50% AMI is making roughly $33,250 annually and
affordable housing include moderate income, low          can afford a 2 bedroom apartment at about $800/
income and extremely low income. To foster clear         month minus utilities. The formula is technical and
communication, HAND staff has compiled the               also accounts for slight variances but ensures that
following list of often used terms and definitions       p r o j e c t s h ave c o n s i s t e n t re n t r a t e s t h a t
and where possible, the source of those definitions.     accommodate a variety of incomes.
                                                         A F F O R DA B L E M A R K E T S : T h i s r e f e r s t o
AFFORDABLE HOUSING: A home is generally                  communities that are driven by market forces that
considered affordable if the household pays 30% or       also align with HUD’s definitions of “affordable
less of their gross income (before taxes are taken       rent”. These markets can change at any time and
out) towards rent/mortgage payments. The term            have no obligation to remain affordable.
usually refers to homes affordable to people with        AREA MEDIAN INCOME (AMI): The median income
low, very low and extremely low income, including        of each Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) and
low-wage working families, seniors on fixed incomes,     each county based on all wage-earners in the area.
veterans, people with disabilities and the homeless.     The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
There are different kinds of affordable homes,           Development (HUD) issues a listing of AMIs each
including public housing (owned by the local             year. AMI is used to determine the eligibility of
housing authority), Section 8 vouchers that help         applicants for both federally and locally funded
people rent privately owned homes, and privately         affordable housing programs and depends on family
owned housing developments with restricted rents.        size.
HUD Definitions of Affordable Housing:                   http://nonprofithousing.org/wp-content/uploads/
Low Income: Income does not exceed 80% of Area           Media-Packet-Affordable-Housing-Glossary.pdf
Median Income (AMI)                                      AREAS OF OPPORTUNITY: Areas of opportunity
Moderate Income: Income does not exceed 60% of           have been best described this way “places that
AMI                                                      effectively connect people to jobs, quality public
Very Low Income: Income does not exceed 50% of           schools and other amenities” (HUD Secretary Shaun
AMI                                                      Donovan). HUD frequently refers to these as
Extremely Low Income: Income does not exceed             “geographies” of opportunity and has created an
30% of AMI                                               opportunity index in order to quantify such
http://nonprofithousing.org/wp-content/uploads/          opportunity throughout the US. The most notable
Media-Packet-Affordable-Housing-Glossary.pdf             work has been done by Jim Woods in 2004.

                SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS             |          3
FAIR HOUSING: Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of                           HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER / SECTION 8
1968 (Fair Housing Act) prohibits discrimination in                           PROGRAM: Federal rent-subsidy program under
the sale, rental and financing of dwellings based on                          Section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act, which issues rent
race, color, religion, sex or national origin. In Utah,                       vouchers to eligible households. The voucher
state law also includes source of income as a                                 payment subsidizes the difference between the
recognized protected class.                                                   gross rent and the tenant’s contribution of 30% of
http://por tal.hud.gov/hudpor tal/HUD?src=/                                   adjusted income, (or 10% of gross income,
program_offices/fair_housing_equal_opp/progdesc/                              whichever is greater). There are two main types of
title8                                                                        voucher programs:
                                                                              Tenant Based: The subsidy remains with the tenant
FAIR MARKET RENT (FMR): Rental rates set by the                               and allows them to move to a unit that best suits
U. S . D e p a r t m e n t o f H o u s i n g a n d U r b a n                  their needs.
Development (HUD), that represents the estimated                              Project Based: The subsidy remains with the unit
monthly rent for a modest apartment. FMRs                                     and the property qualifies tenants according to the
determine the eligibility of rental housing units for                         parameters of the program.
the Section 8 program and serve as the payment                                http://nonprofithousing.org/wp-content/uploads/
standard used to calculate subsidies under the                                Media-Packet-Affordable-Housing-Glossary.pdf
Rental Voucher program.
http://nonprofithousing.org/wp-content/uploads/                               HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (HFA): Each State has
Media-Packet-Affordable-Housing-Glossary.pdf                                  a Housing Finance Agency in Utah it is Utah Housing
                                                                              Corporation (UHC). UHC manages Utah’s low
HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENT (HAP): Section 8                                   income housing tax credit program and allocation
Housing Assistance Payment Contracts (“HAP                                    process, distributing over $6.7MM in 2016. HFAs
Contracts”)provide that the resident pays a portion                           are State-chartered, were established to help meet
of the Contract rent (the resident’s portion is                               the affordable housing needs of State residents,
limited to a percentage of the resident’s income),                            have statewide authority to finance affordable
with the remainder of the Contract Rent bein paid                             housing, and typically are governed by a board of
under the HAP contract as a Housing Assitance                                 directors appointed by the Governor.
Payment. For example, if the Cotnract Rent is $600                            h t t p s : / / w w w. h u d e x c h a n g e. i n f o / r e s o u r c e s /
and the resident’s protion is $200, the HAP portion                           documents/Glossary-of-Multifamily-Affordable-
would be $400.                                                                Housing-Preservation-Terms.pdf
h t t p s : / / w w w. h u d e x c h a n g e. i n f o / r e s o u r c e s /
documents/Glossary-of-Multifamily-Affordable-                                 I N F I L L D E V E L O P M E N T: A s t r a t e g y f o r
Housing-Preservation-Terms.pdf                                                accommodating growth and preventing sprawl
                                                                              through greater density and efficiency in land use
HOUSING COST BURDEN: When 30% or more of a                                    development within existing urban boundaries.
household’s income is spent on housing costs. Many                            http://nonprofithousing.org/wp-content/uploads/
households are severely over-burdened and pay                                 Media-Packet-Affordable-Housing-Glossary.pdf
more than 50% of their income towards housing
(see Severe Cost Burden).
http://nonprofithousing.org/wp-content/uploads/
Media-Packet-Affordable-Housing-Glossary.pdf




                       SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS                                  |           4
LOW INCOME HOUSING TAX CREDIT PROGRAM                                         disabilities. Public housing comes in all sizes and
(LIHTC): The LIHTC program was created in the Tax                             types, from scattered single family houses to high
Reform Act of 1986, and it includes both                                      rise apartments for elderly families. There are
competitively allocated “9 percent” tax credits and                           approximately 1.2 million households living in
non-competitive “4 percent” tax credits. Developer-                           public housing units, managed by some 3,300 HAs.
owners of LIHTC properties can claim credits                                  http://por tal.hud.gov/hudpor tal/HUD?src=/
against their federal income tax liability, for up to                         program_offices/public_indian_housing/programs/
ten years after the property is completed and leased                          ph
up, provided that the proper ty remains in
compliance with LIHTC requirements. Typically, a                              PUBLIC HOUSING AUTHORITIES Local government
LIHTC property is owned by a limited partnership or                           agencies that are authorized to manage housing for
limited liability company in which the real estate                            very low- and extremely low-income households,
developer is the general partner or managing                                  either as public housing, through Section 8
member and in which corporate investors hold the                              vouchers, or with other types of affordable housing.
remaining ownership interests. In Utah, many of the                           Generally, households pay no more than 30% of
industrial banks are the primary investors in these                           their income for rent and the remainder is
par tnerships providing a unique market for                                   subsidized by the Federal government through HUD.
purchase of these credits.                                                    http://nonprofithousing.org/wp-content/uploads/
h t t p s : / / w w w. h u d e x c h a n g e. i n f o / r e s o u r c e s /   Media-Packet-Affordable-Housing-Glossary.pdf
documents/Glossary-of-Multifamily-Affordable-
Housing-Preservation-Terms.pdf                                                QUALIFYING CENSUS TRACTS: A Qualified Census
                                                                              Tract (QCT) is any census tract (or equivalent
MARKET RATE HOUSING: Rental housing that is                                   geographic area defined by the Census Bureau) in
privately owned but charges rents consistent with                             which at least 50% of households have an income
the property amenities as well as local housing                               less than 60% of the Area Median Gross Income
market prices and conditions. Typically, these                                (AMGI). HUD has defined 60% of AMGI as 120% of
property owners do not receive direct subsidies.                              HUD's Very Low Income Limits (VLILs), which are
Conventional market-rate properties may offer rental                          based on 50% of area median family income,
housing that is also considered “affordable”.                                 adjusted for high cost and low income areas.
https://www.fanniemae.com/content/fact_sheet/
wpworkhouse.pdf                                                               RACIALLY/ETHNICALLY CONCENTRATED AREAS
                                                                              OF POVERTY: A census tract where the number of
MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT: A building or group of                                 families in poverty is equal to or greater than 40
buildings that combines multiple revenue producing                            percent of all families, or an overall family poverty
uses in an integrated and coherent plan. As an                                rate equal to or greater than three times the
example, a mixed-use development might include                                metropolitan pover ty rate, and a non-white
retail space on the ground floor, offices on the                              population, measured at greater than 50 percent of
middle floor, condominiums on the top floors and a                            the population.
garage on the lower level.
http://nonprofithousing.org/wp-content/uploads/                               SEVERE HOUSING COST BURDEN: When 50% or
Media-Packet-Affordable-Housing-Glossary.pdf                                  more of a household’s income is spent on housing
                                                                              costs.
PUBLIC HOUSING: Public housing was established                                http://nonprofithousing.org/wp-content/uploads/
to provide decent and safe rental housing for eligible                        Media-Packet-Affordable-Housing-Glossary.pdf
low-income families, the elderly, and persons with



                       SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS                       |        5
                  3            FINDINGS


OVERVIEW                                                  9% TAX CREDITS

During the group’s discussions, several key findings      The working group recognizes that the 9% tax
emerged as issues facing developers and those             credits are the single most important tool for
financing affordable housing. While there are many
                                                          providing financing for affordable housing.
issues, the following are five key findings from the
                                                          Because of the amount of equity created as a
group that helped inform the recommendations.
                                                          result of the 9% credits, many projects using this
                                                          tool are able to provide units to those with
SUBSIDY AMOUNTS
                                                          extremely and very low incomes. However, the
                                                          process to get these tax credits is extremely
The working group dedicated significant time to
determining what kind of subsidy would be needed
                                                          competitive and occurs only once each year. Many
for the development of affordable housing units.          times developers will have to wait 2 to 3 years
Scenarios from throughout the city were presented         before they may get the credits which can
to the group for their consideration of varying sizes,    increase costs.
a range of AMI’s, and uses. Land location continues
to be the key determining factor in the subsidy           4% TAX CREDITS
needed. The working group concluded that the gap
ranged from $12,000 - $50,000 per unit when used          The 4% tax credits do not provide as much equity
in conjunction with 4% credits and $67,000 -              as the 9% tax credits and therefore require other
$360,000 per unit without any other subsidy.              funding sources. To be eligible for the tax credits,
Concluding that in order to increase the affordable       a developer must also get a Private Activity Bond
housing stock a significant financial commitment          which is more than 50% of the cost of the
would need to be made.                                    project. These bonds are expensive to finance and
                                                          thus drive up the costs of the project resulting in
WORKING WITH THE CITY                                     higher rental rates. As a result, 4% tax credit
                                                          projects often are targeted to those at 60% of
The development professionals in the working group        area median income. The Private Activity Bonds
felt that the City could be a better and more             are allocated by the State and have an annual cap
collaborative par tner in affordable housing
                                                          which over the past couple of years has been
development. They are unsure of what’s available to
                                                          expended by the spring. However, these credits
them as far as incentives, fee waivers, expedited
                                                          may change and become less desirable if interest
processes, etc. If the City wants more affordable
                                                          rates increase.
housing developers building new units, the working
group felt that the City needs to create a more
streamlined and productive environment.


                 SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS       |       6
SMALL ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT

The working group believes that a critical
component missing is affordable housing in smaller
developments. These may include townhomes,
cottages, small apartment buildings, etc. However,
land and development costs are typically higher
which results in a higher sales or rental rate. The
group stated that these types of units are an
effective tool for addressing affordability but the
financing is not available for medium density
projects.



SALT LAKE CITY HOUSING TRUST FUND

The City’s Housing Trust Fund is recognized as a
valuable and necessary tool to maximize the tax
credits and to leverage other available funding
sources. The working group discussed the need for
the fund to be sustainable with a constant funding
source in addition to more flexibility to do projects
that might not fit the status quo.




                SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS   |   7
 4           RECOMMENDATIONS



                         OVERVIEW

                         The Finance Working Group began their work by creating a
                         list of over 20 financing tools and policy changes that may
                         result in additional funding or incentives for developers to
                         build affordable housing in Salt Lake City. They categorized
                         their recommendations into three groups: policy, incentives,
                         and funding resources.

                         The working group notes that concessions may need to be
                         made within each recommendation and continued
                         conversation is needed on how each solution could be
                         modified for the greatest good. This includes dialogue on not
                         only solutions but the ability to monitor and administer those
                         solutions. The group also noted that further clarity of the
                         definition of affordable housing is needed in order to ensure
                         consistency on the parameters in which each solution is
                         discussed. In addition, the group generally felt the Housing
                         Trust Fund Board should be the main body that manages
                         and recommends subsidies either in the form a loan or a
                         grant to the Mayor and City Council. Each recommendation
                         also had various discussions on ease, convenience and
                         timeliness as key factors to offering any incentive or subsidy
                         to developers. Lastly, it is noted that each solution should be
                         explored in the context of leveraging legislative dollars,
                         county collaboration and feedback to the State’s affordable
                         housing group.




SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS       |        8
                  5          POLICY RECOMMENDATIONS



INCLUSIONARY ZONING                                       could range from $60,000 - $250,000 per unit
                                                          should a developer decide not to include any
Inclusionary Zoning policies are common around the        affordable units. Pricing would vary depending on
country and ensure that as cities change and              the location of the units and the need for
develop, affordability is included in the early stages    affordability in the desired area. Distinct policy
of development. An inclusionary zoning ordinance          elements would have to be designed for multi-family
requires that any new residential construction has a      developments and single-family developments.
certain percentage of affordable units included.          Variations could be added to this policy including
Some cities will also allow developers to make “in        targeting geographic areas where there is a lack of
lieu” payments should they decide not to include          affordable housing, incentive zoning and upzoning
affordable units. Inclusionary zoning throughout the      waive certain parameters in order to allow for more
country has typically been targeted at those between      density at which time the developer would include
40%-120% AMI. These policies also have the ability        an affordable component.
to limit concentrated areas of affordability and
poverty. While other policies around zoning could be      In addition, the group recognizes the need and
explored to include density and other incentives the      expense to ensure that the inclusionary zoning
group focused on inclusionary zoning due to its           requirements are being met. Such compliance would
success throughout the nation.                            include auditing rent rolls and incomes, inspecting
                                                          units, and enforcing when necessary.
Salt Lake City continues to be a high performing
market that attracts businesses, residents, and           CASE STUDIES
developers. In the opinion of the group inclusionary
zoning would not be an outright deterrent for             Seattle, Washington
development however, considerations for compliance        San Francisco, California
and design of the policy would be critical in the         Washington D.C.
long-term impact of the policy.
                                                          IMPACT
RECOMMENDATION
                                                          A citywide ordinance would ensure that affordability
A citywide inclusionary zoning policy should be           is being included in all housing projects or providing
considered as a long-term strategy for ongoing            a revenue to subsidize future housing. The impact of
affordability. This zoning would require that 5%-10%      this policy would most likely be seen through infill
of new construction of over 50 units be affordable to     development and development on the west side
people with low to moderate incomes. The group            where the majority of land is still available.
was amenable to the option of “in lieu” fees which



                 SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS        |        9
THE MISSING MIDDLE

Over the past 5 years, Salt Lake City has seen a         types such as these are ideal for the city’s shifting
multi-family renaissance with thousands of units         demographics including those who are aging in
built, under construction, or in the permitting          place, students graduating from college, young
process. While new single family construction,           families who want to remain in the city, and those
especially in subdivisions, has been somewhat            who are living on a working wage.
limited due to a scarcity of undeveloped land, there
is still a strong market particularly where homes are    RECOMMENDATION
torn down and rebuilt or go through extensive
                                                         Creating missing middle housing in the city will
remodeling. While much of the new construction in
                                                         require changes to current zoning ordinances. Any
the city has been at market rate, there has been a
                                                         solution or proposal will need to be coordinated
slight increase in affordable multi-family and single
                                                         through the Planning Division.
family homes.

                                                         To create more affordable housing opportunities, the
The “Missing Middle” refers to an absence of multi-
                                                         working group recommends that the City Council
unit, clustered housing or other medium density
                                                         seriously consider Accessory Dwelling Units as a
housing types compatible in scale with single family
                                                         tool to providing affordable housing units
homes that help meet the demand for not only
                                                         throughout the city. ADU’s provide affordable
urban living, but for affordability as well. Examples
                                                         housing to family members, aging adults, young
of these unit types include townhomes, duplexes,
                                                         families, single parents with children, those with
accessory dwelling units such as carriage homes or
                                                         disabilities.
mother-in-law apar tments, and small scale
apartment buildings or bungalow courts.
                                                         The group also recommends that the City Council
                                                         address the efficacy of density bonuses. In some
Current zoning in Salt Lake City tends to favor either
                                                         cities, density bonuses are used as an incentive for
single family or high density multi-family with
                                                         affordable housing, yet most developers in Salt Lake
limited opportunities for missing middle type
                                                         City do not take advantage of them because of the
housing. The Residential Multi-Family zone (RMF)
                                                         increased cost of other building systems.
allows some of this type of housing to be built
however the density requirements in that zone are
such that large land parcels would be necessary for
development. As a result of the larger parcels and
therefore higher price, it becomes difficult to build
medium density housing at an affordable price. The
Planning Division recognizes that there are barriers
in building this type of housing in the current
ordinance.

Accessory dwelling units, townhomes, and small
scale apartment buildings are sensitive to the look
and feel of single family neighborhoods and can be
sold or rented to those with fixed incomes. Housing




                SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS         |       10
                  6           INCENTIVES



INCENTIVES                                               RECOMMENDATION

Incentives are items that would increase some            Land Banking and participating in Community Land
affordability but may not have a direct monetary         Trust are some of the most powerful tools for long-
correlation. In addition, the working group believes     term preservation of affordable housing. The group
these are some of the more immediate actions that        agreed that any revenue targeted for affordable
might be able to be taken.                               housing should be partially used for land acquisition
                                                         and preservation in either of these entities. Further,
COMMUNITY LAND TRUST                                     the land within the trust should be developed by a
                                                         wide variety of public and private entities according
A Community Land Trust is an entity that develops        to what each community needs. Both a Community
and stewards affordable housing, community               Land Trust and a model of land banking bring
gardens, civic buildings, commercial spaces and          extreme value and it is recommended that the
other community assets on behalf of a community.         administration prioritize the analysis of these
They are public or community-owned entities              unique models.
generally created to acquire, manage, maintain, and
repurpose vacant, abandoned, and foreclosed              CASE STUDIES
properties. In addition, they can be used in an
opportunistic fashion to purchase land at an             Champlain, Vermont
affordable price in an attempt to preserve it. While a   Albuquerque, New Mexico
public entity may manage the Trust, a nonprofit          Durham, North Carolina
structure allows public entities like a city to
contribute but also provides an opportunity for tax-     IMPACT
deductible donations to be made in the form of
property.

An alternative to a trust is the strategic effort of
land banking for affordable housing purposes. This
would include a committed plan for buying and
preserving land and buildings that are currently hard    Salt Lake County Median Sales Price
to access or it is anticipated as communities
gentrify that the property will be hard to access.       An annual investment of $1,000,000 would produce
This method also ensures affordability by                roughly 5 pieces of land and while that may appear
maintaining ownership but offering long-term leases.     minimal, this would be preserved in perpetuity
                                                         ensuring long-term affordability.


                SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS        |       11
TAX ABATEMENT                                           INCREASED CITY ACCESS

Abatement is a reduction in the level of taxation       The ease in which developers are able to do
faced by an individual or company. Examples of          business with Salt Lake City was a key area
abatement include tax decrease, a reduction in          identified to help incentivize affordability. The group
penalties or a rebate. If an individual or business     discussed many variations of how this might work
overpays its taxes or receives a tax bill that is too   and the value it would bring to each project. The
high, it can request abatement from the taxing          intention of this recommendation is to expedite
authorities. This incentive would allow affordable      current affordable projects and increase mixed
housing developers the ability to increase their        income development.
financial capacity for debt service and therefore add
some affordability in the overall project.              RECOMMENDATION

RECOMMENDATION                                          The City should create a decision making body
                                                        represented by each department that reviews
Salt Lake City should consider sponsoring a             project transactions jointly, commits to a response
statewide tax abatement program in collaboration        time and has the ability to waive fees (in accordance
with the State and Salt Lake County. The tax            with policies). This group could only be accessed by
abatement should be in proportion to the level of       developers who commit to a percentage of units at
affordability in any given housing project. Meaning     a specific level of affordability. Authority is a key
that if the percent of affordability is 50% the tax     component of this policy and the group would need
relief should correlate at 50% and should be            to be able to act quickly to waive fees and expedite
validated annually. The group agreed that this long-    affordable housing developments through the
term strategy would significantly incentivize           permitting process. For example:
affordability on an ongoing basis.                           • Impact Fees
                                                             • Density
CASE STUDIES                                                • Parking Requirements
                                                            • Design Changes
Washington, D.C.
New York City, New York                                 In addition it is recommended that a housing
Portland, Oregon                                        ombudsman be the point person to facilitate and
                                                        communicate with the group and the developers.
IMPACT
                                                        IMPACT
A tax abatement of roughly $40,000 per year would
leverage an additional $600,000 in available debt       Based on a recent affordable housing development
increasing the developers ability to add affordable     in Salt Lake City:
units.




                SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS         |        12
                 7         FUNDING RESOURCES



FUNDING RESOURCES                                        EQUITY INVESTING

A committed revenue source is an integral part of        Currently Salt Lake City issues a Request for
funding the subsidies needed for affordable housing.     Proposals for a development, negotiates a purchase
While incentives create lasting partnerships and         price and then sells the property to the developer.
support for affordability they are not sufficient to     Equity investing would allow the City to contribute
house those at 40% AMI and below long term. These        equity through a land or cash donation in exchange
may be the most challenging yet critical                 for a return on its investment. The group
recommendations to consider.                             contemplated several forms of equity and joint
                                                         venture scenarios with diverse return expectations.
                                                         This form of contribution is seen as a way to create
                                                         sustainable funding over a long term period but
                                                         requires a much higher risk tolerance than generally
                                                         seen from public entities.

                                                         RECOMMENDATION

                                                         The City should explore a limited partnership
                                                         agreement structure in which they offer a
                                                         percentage of equity for a higher return. This would
                                                         require a comfort in investing in projects with a
                                                         limited amount of affordability in order to produce
                                                         revenue that could be reinvested as a subsidy for
                                                         existing or future projects.

                                                         IMPACT

                                                         The standard for general investors is a 10% return,
                                                         however, since the City’s main interest is
                                                         sustainability the target would range from 4-5%
                                                         returns which would be fully reinvested in subsidy,
                                                         loans, or land acquisition for future affordable
                                                         housing development.




                SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS       |       13
CITY-ISSUED BOND OR LEVY                                     affordable housing and mixed use/income
                                                             developments. Notably, fees can also be a polarizing
A general obligation bond, revenue bond, other               issue for communities drawing out opposition to
types of bonds or levy would supply an initial               affordable housing and whose role it is to pay for it.
investment in affordable housing. This type of               This is seen as an approach that should be viewed
revenue would help address the current gap that              through a long-term lens with the most-long term
exists by providing immediate subsidy to                     impact.
developers, however, without a plan to issue a bond
eve r y 5 - 7 ye a r s i t d o e s n’ t p r ov i d e mu ch   REAL ESTATE DOCUMENT FEES
sustainability.
                                                             Document Fees (Transaction Fees) are a mechanism
RECOMMENDATION                                               designed to produce revenue from specific
                                                             transactions at the City/State level. Such revenues
A bond issuance should be explored in order to               are then a dedicated source of funding for a specific
address the current gap. It is recommended that the          public purpose. While variations are wide the group
administration and Council explore the feasibility of        specifically explored a document/real estate
being a bond issuer. Further, if there is a model that       recording fee which is the most common fee used
allows the bond dollars to be revolving through the          across the country for this purpose. This would
loan fund that would be a very effective tool for            produce significant revenue and provide a consistent
leveraging such dollars. As a supplemental                   source of funding for affordable housing.
recommendation the group favors a legislative
appeal to increase the amount the Private Activity           RECOMMENDATION
Board issues toward multifamily housing as a way to
leverage additional 4% tax credits.                          While a document fee would provide significant
                                                             revenue the group preferred options that remained
CASE STUDIES                                                 in the jurisdiction of the city. They felt that any fee
                                                             would be valued so long as the city had the
Charlotte, North Carolina: $15MM every 2 years for           authority to charge it and that it was in some way
8 year cycle                                                 related to the real estate/housing markets. However,
Austin, Texas: $55MM one time bond                           should the possibility arise to impose a fee that
Miami, Florida: $3B over 40 years ($195MM for                could benefit both the county and the city it would
affordable housing)                                          be favored within the working group.
California: $3B over 30 years
Seattle, Washington: $140MM levy voter approved              CASE STUDIES
every 7 years
                                                             Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: $12MM annual revenue
                                                             Washington State: $27MM
IMPACT
                                                             Oregon State: $12MM

                                                             IMPACT

                                                             At a $25 fee for each home sold in Salt Lake County,
CITY AND/OR COUNTY FEES                                      revenues and potential units would be as follows:
                                                             2014: 14,767 homes sold
Fees arose in the group as the most consistent, fair,                $369,175 in revenue
and long term solution to begin to fill the gaps on                  $50K-$100K per unit cost
                                                                     5 affordable units

                 SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS          |        14
LINKAGE FEE AND/OR IMPACT FEES                            PEER-TO-PEER RENTAL FEES

Commercial linkage fees are a form of impact fee          Peer-to-peer fees are increasingly common in urban,
assessed on new commercial developments or                tourist, driven cities. This approach could supply
major employers based on the need for workforce           revenue that would see an increase over the next 10
housing generated by new and expanding                    years, however, there is consideration for
businesses. An impact fee would be imposed on             compliance in a gig economy like peer-to-peer rental
property developers by municipalities for the new         such as Airbnb. Hotel fees would be easier to
infrastructure that must be built or increased due to     administer but could garner larger opposition.
new property development. These fees are designed
to offset the impact of additional development and        RECOMMENDATION
residents on the municipality’s infrastructure and
services, which include the city’s water and sewer        The city should explore how an occupancy fee could
network, police and fire protection services, schools     be charged in the peer-to-peer market. Currently, the
and libraries. These fees can also be levied against      compliance and implementation of enforcing fees is
any individual or entity where its actions create an      new and best practices are still being formed. In
externality within a municipality. These fees are one     addition, this is an opportunity to be innovative in
of the more consistent mechanisms to fund                 our approach and curve the impact this market is
affordable housing seen throughout the country.           having in urban areas throughout the county. In Salt
                                                          Lake City there is no zone clarity for this type of
RECOMMENDATION                                            rental and Housing & Zoning Enforcement is
                                                          currently shutting down these enterprises in
The working group recommends that either a                residential zones. It is recommended that a permit
linkage fee or impact fee be explored. With               fee and occupancy fee are explored to determine the
anticipated growth of the Salt Lake City market over      best benefit to the community.
the next decade these fees would play a critical role
in supporting affordable housing. Lastly, it is           IMPACT
recommended that the City conduct the necessary
diligence of a nexus study as quickly as possible in      It is estimated that Airbnb has approximately 150
order to validate how much revenue would be               units available online in Salt Lake City. If a permit
produced and assess the actual link of development        fee of $350 were charged that would generate
on affordable housing. The group also notes that          $52,500 in revenue. If an occupancy fee of $5 per
exceptions can and should be made for industry            person were charged (average stay of three people
specific businesses that the city is trying to attract.   with 200 stays per year at each location) it would
                                                          generate $450,000 in revenue.
CASE STUDIES

Somerville, Massachusetts: $500,000
Boston, Massachusetts: $7MM




                 SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS       |        15
                  8            STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS



OVERVIEW                                                 COMMUNITY LAND TRUST To ensure preservation
                                                         of existing affordable housing and to secure
The working group understands that the preceding         property in high opportunity areas HAND staff
recommendations are effective tools but they may
                                                         recommends that the City work with a non-profit to
require more due diligence, public outreach, and         create a community land trust.
support and/or action from legislative bodies
including the City Council, the County, and the
State. HAND staff has evaluated the proposals and
recommends the following:                                ZONING HAND staff recommends that the Mayor
                                                         and City Council approve ADU’s throughout the city;
                                                         create a density program that would be an incentive
INCLUSIONARY ZONING A form of inclusionary               to developers; and examine the RMF density
zoning may work in Salt Lake City in certain             requirements so that medium density products
geographically targeted areas. These areas could         could be built on smaller parcels in neighborhoods.
include transit corridors and east side locations.
HAND staff recommends that the Mayor and the
Council evaluate best practices and determine
how inclusionary zoning could work in Salt Lake          IMPACT FEE/LINKAGE FEE As an ongoing funding
City to produce more affordable housing.                 source to the Housing Trust Fund, HAND staff
                                                         recommends that the City impose an affordable
PEER-TO-PEER HAND staff recommends that the              housing impact fee or linkage fee.
Mayor and Council consider peer-to-peer occupancy
and permit fees as a source of revenue. While this
may be new to many cities and possibly difficult to
                                                         INCREASED CITY ACCESS The creation of a team
enforce, it could be a strong generator of revenue for
                                                         within the City that could make quick decisions and
affordable housing.
                                                         an ombudsman who could help navigate city
                                                         processes would reduce costs for affordable housing
HOUSING BOND OR LEVY To generate a funding
                                                         developers. Reduced costs translate into more
source large enough to address the affordable
                                                         housing units. The ability for this team to waive fees
housing needs in the city, HAND staff recommends
                                                         and make quick decisions is crucial to its success.
that the Mayor and Council approve a housing bond
or levy that is voter approved and repeated every
predetermined number of years.




                SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS       |        16
       ADDENDUM



CASE STUDIES FOR THE WORKING GROUP



   COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF TOOLS
 EVALUATED BY THE WORKING GROUP
         Affordable Housing Development - Case Study Summaries

The Process: Teams were asked to consider three different housing development opportunities. The
goal was to model a mixed-income development financing scenario for each case study that didn’t use
the 9% Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC), but still included some units affordable to households
with incomes below 40% of the Area Median Income. The projects could include market rate units as
well. Teams were allowed to consider a reduction of the land cost and use of other available affordable
housing subsidies to make the proposed projects feasible. The proposals are summarized below, in a
format which illustrates the subsidy amount needed per affordable unit.


CASE STUDY 1: Sugarhouse Land - Old Deseret Industries Property

This 1.4 acre site at 2234 S Highland Dr. is city-owned and is in a High Opportunity (low poverty)
neighborhood. It is zoned CSHBD-1 (Sugarhouse Business District), with a potential building height of
105 feet, and is valued at $3MM. The site is not in an area that qualifies for the tax credit basis boost.

                                              With 4% Credits                Conventional (no LIHTC)
Proposal Specifics                                         Notes                               Notes
# Units Proposed                          110                                  60
Development Cost Per Unit                 $142,844      $1MM land cost        $140,740        $0 land cost
# of Units @ 60% ami                            77                70%                0
# of Units @ 40% ami                            33                30%               12    20% affordable
                                                       100% affordable
Sources per Unit
Bank Debt Supported                         $53,499                            $88,733
Equity                                      $50,023         1.18 pricing       $29,901              10% IRR
Developer Loan                               $4,545                                 $0
Public Debt                                 $18,182    $2MM OW+City            $22,106         $1MM City
Remaining Gap/unit                          $16,594                                 $0

Total Subsidy                           $5,825,386     w/ full land cost    $4,326,350 w/ full land cost
Subsidy Required per Affd. Unit            $52,958                            $360,529

Findings: The 4% LIHTC provided additional equity, but the project still needed significant subsidy to be
feasible; over $5.8MM for a 110 unit project, with all units meeting the tax credit rent requirements.
This is primarily because the location does not provide the 30% boost in credit basis that makes
downtown 4% tax credit projects more feasible.

With 20% of the units affordable, the conventionally-financed project required an extremely high
subsidy per affordable unit of $360K. The model assumes that a conventional equity investor would
need to receive the same rate of return a 100% market rate project would provide in order to allow the
developer to commit the affordable units. The project would require 100% of the land cost to be
contributed, as well as requiring an additional $1MM in soft subordinate financing.




          SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS                   |        17
CASE STUDY 2: Vacant Land at 454 E South Temple
This site is privately-owned land in a Historic Landmark District and High Opportunity Area. The site is
1.14 acres, and was listed for $3.7MM. The zoning is R-MU. Site is located in a LIHTC Basis Boost Area.
The teams were asked to do essentially the same exercise as in Case Study #1; provide as many units
affordable to households at or below 40% ami as possible, either using 4% credits or within a market
rate development.

                                         With 4% Credits + Boost           Conventional (no LIHTC)
Proposal Specifics                                         Notes                             Notes
# Units Proposed                         110                                       70
Development Cost Per Unit                $174,760        $3.5MM Land         $171,844      $2.7MM Land
# of Units @ 60% ami                           77                70%                0
# of Units @ 40% ami                           33                30%                7    10% affordable
                                                      100% affordable
Sources per Unit
Bank Debt Supported                        $53,207                           $129,423
Equity                                    $107,727        1.18 pricing        $42,421              10% IRR
Developer Loan                              $4,545     Repaid in 15 yrs            $0
Public Debt                                 $9,281         $1MM OW                 $0
Modeled Gap/unit                                $0                                 $0

Total Subsidy                           $1,220,900    w/ full land cost      $800,000 w/ full land cost
Subsidy Required per Affd. Unit            $11,099                           $114,286



Findings: With the same unit mix as the previous case study, the 4% LIHTC model yielded a much more
feasible project, requiring only an $11K per unit subsidy. The difference was almost entirely due to the
additional equity available with the tax credit basis boost which the location provides. This example
illustrates the value of a basis boost eligible sites in creating affordable units with minimal additional
subsidy.

Once again, the conventionally-financed project was much less feasible, with a required subsidy of
$114K per affordable unit; and only 10% of the units restricted at a 40% ami affordable rent level.




          SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS                 |         18
CASE STUDY 3: Acquire Existing Downtown Apartment Building

Subject is a 20 unit, 1925 vintage multi-family building located at 254 S 300 E. The building sits on .20
acres and includes 16 parking spaces. The building is privately-owned and is being marketed for a
purchase price of $2,935,000. It was substantially renovated in 1998, and has had other major capital
improvements in the last few years.

The teams were instructed to investigate the feasibility of providing some portion of the units at
affordable rent levels without using tax credits.

                                         Conventional (no LIHTC)             Conventional (no LIHTC)
 Proposal Specifics                 half@ 40% ami           Notes         all @ 60% ami       Notes
 # Units Proposed                              20                                   20
 Development Cost Per Unit               $152,625         $60K in rehab       $173,775 $500K in rehab
 # of Units @ 60% ami                           0                                   20 100% affordable
 # of Units @ 40% ami                          10       50% affordable               0

 Sources per Unit
 Bank Debt Supported                        $67,226                            $78,750
 Equity                                     $17,941             10% IRR        $21,000              10% IRR
 Developer Loan                                  $0                                 $0
 Public Debt                                $50,000          $1MM City         $50,000         $1MM City
 Modeled Gap/unit                           $17,459                            $24,025

 Total Subsidy                           $1,349,171                         $1,480,500
 Subsidy Required per Affd. Unit            $67,459                            $74,025



Findings: Though the existing rents in the building are very close to 60% ami rents already (avg.
$853/unit), the teams found that the operating expenses provided by the seller were unreasonably low,
making the building essentially overpriced. Using a market level of operating expenses, and assuming
some level of capital improvements were likely to be necessary (this amount varied between teams), the
result was a necessary subsidy of around $70K per unit, depending on the depth and percentage of
affordability being modeled.




          SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS                  |         19
                      COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF TOOLS EVALUATED BY WORKING GROUP




Tool Name                                               Description                                                                                   Tool Parameters                                                       Type
                                                                                                                                                      This would be designed to address the current gap in the community
General Obligation Bond                            Funding to support the preservation, assistance, and new development of affordable housing (8,200 units)                                                                 One time funding
                                                                                                                                                      This would be designed to address the current gap in the community
Private Activity Bond                              Funding to support the preservation, assistance, and new development of affordable housing (8,200 units)                                                                 One time funding
Tax Allocation                                     Would provide subsidy from General Fund to affordable housing developers                           Roughly $39K annually for 15 years                                    Incentive
                                                                                                                                                      Policy can vary and the requirement may be substituted with "in lieu"
Inclusionary Zoning                                Ordinance that requires a given share of new construction to be affordable                         fees                                                                  Policy
                                                   Develop and steward affordable housing and other neighborhood spaces on behalf of a
Community Land Trust                               community                                                                                          Generally held by a nonprofit group but contributed to by the city    Preservation
                                                   Offering a letter of credit for a certain percent of an affordable housing transaction so that the
Letter of Credit                                   developer can access higher LTV and lower cash flow transactions                                   Varied                                                                Incentive
                                                   Using the Housing Trust Fund allocation to leverage private dollars. The money would act as a
                                                   first loss position but actual dollars loaned would come from a financial institution pool. City Varied but the loan parameters are likely to be less flexible then
Loan Loss Reserve                                  would be the first in and then subordinate its own position.                                       current structure                                                     Incentive
                                                   Zoning tool that that permits developers to build more housing units, taller buildings, or more
Density Bonus                                      floor space than normally allowed, in exchange for provision of a defined public benefit           Varied                                                                Incentive
                                                   A cross functional team (similar to RDT) that meets to review applications and apply waivers. Decisions would be based upon certain parameters but also leave
SLC Deal Team                                      Important that the group have decision making authority                                            some discretion to the team                                           Incentive
Energy Efficiency Waiver                           Having a standard that is more cost effective such as Enterprise Green Certification               Varied                                                                Incentive
Car Charging Requirements                          Flexibility on requirement based on the merits of the project                                      Varied                                                                Incentive
Impact Fee Waiver                                  Additional fee waiver on properties that have some affordable housing but is not 100%              Varied                                                                Incentive
Reduce Parking Restrictions                        Reduce ratio of parking needed and encourage finance institutions to support that ratio            Instead of 1:1 it would be 1:2                                        Incentive
                                                   Flexible design standards on hard to develop properties (like historic or environmental land
Design Leniency for "Hard to Develop"              issues)                                                                                            Varied                                                                Incentive
                                                                                                                                                      Currently HTF ordinance has a 55 year term. A fee could be instituted
                                                   The term in which a property needs to remain affordable to access certain benefits such as tax in cases in which the developer changes the affordable units to market
Affordability Term in Housing Trust Fund Ordinance credits or Housing Trust Fund dollars                                                              rate                                                                  Preservation

                                                                                                                                                     Can vary but include whether or not it is a primary residence or
Peer to Peer Short Term Rental Services (Airbnb)        Additional Tax on overnights stays in single family homes.                                   additional property etc…                                                 Revenue Generation

Deed & Mortgage Document Recording Fees                 Fees collected when deed and mortgage documents are being recorded                           Generally all transactions and fees can range from $50 - $130)           Revenue Generation
                                                                                                                                                     .50% & 1% Can be limited or equally instituted (i.e. no fee for family
Real Estate Transfer Fee                                Charge on real estate based on the sale price of the property being transferred              transfers)                                                               Revenue Generation

                                                        Commercial linkage fees are a form of impact fee assessed on new commercial developments
                                                        or major employers based on the need for workforce housing generated by new and          Generally determined by studies that can equate impact on
Impact/Linkage Fee                                      expanding businesses                                                                     community to a dollar amount.                                                Revenue Generation




                                        SALT LAKE CITY AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS                                                                                   |                  20
