PLAN SALT LAKE
                                  F T
                     A
SALT LAKE CITY │CITYWIDE VISION




     D             R
                                   Adopted December 1, 2015


                                   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE   1
                                      PLAN SALT LAKE
                                          INTRODUCTION ................................................................. 03
                                          OVERVIEW .......................................................................... 04
                                                 Sustainable Growth & Development ............... 09
                                          VISION ................................................................................. 12
                                          GUIDING PRINCIPLES ........................................................ 14
                                                  Neighborhoods ..................................................... 17
                                                  Growth .................................................................. 19
                                                  Housing ................................................................ 21
                                                  Transportation & Mobility .................................. 23
                                                  Air Quality ........................................................... 25
                                                  Natural Environment ........................................... 27
                                                  Parks & Recreation ............................................ 29
                                                  Beautiful City ....................................................... 31
                                                  Preservation ........................................................ 33
                                                  Arts & Culture ..................................................... 35
                                                  Equity .................................................................... 37
                                                  Economy .............................................................. 39
                                                  Government .......................................................... 41
                                                  Water Conservation & Land Use Planning ....... 43
                                          APPENDIX
                                                MEASURING SUCCESS: Matrix ........................ 46
                                                City Implementation Tools ................................ 48
                                          ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS ..................................................... 50




2   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
            A VISION FOR THE
                                  FUTURE
Plan Salt Lake sets a citywide Vision for Salt
Lake City for the next 25 years. It considers
where we are as a city, where we want to be, and
establishes the framework for decision making
that will get us there. The Plan is based on
existing City policies and input gathered from
thousands of people including City residents,
leaders, business owners, experts, and visitors.
The Plan intends to set the stage for future
neighborhood, community, and City element
plans to address how they will each contribute
to the 2040 Vision for Salt Lake City.

By establishing a consolidated citywide
vision, Plan Salt Lake creates a framework to
prepare our City for growth, while focusing on
sustainability and livability. At the root of the
Vision, is quality of life for current and future
generations. We recognize that cities evolve and
change overtime. As the natural, built, social,
and economic environments change, it is our
responsibility to ensure we are responsive,
resilient, and contributing to our collective
Vision.




        SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE             3
OVERVIEW
     PURPOSE
       The purpose of Plan Salt Lake is to create a shared Vision for the future of Salt Lake City for the next 25 years. The Plan
       outlines the over arching “umbrella” policies related to managing growth and change that are best identified on a citywide
       level.

       This document is intended to provide direction to policy makers, residents, property owners, designers, planners,
       business owners, and leaders. The purpose of Plan Salt Lake is to:

         •    Establish and articulate a citywide vision for Salt Lake City;
         •    Identify the commonly held values of our community;
         •    Establish a framework for future community master plans and element plans (also known as thematic plans) to
              carry out the Vision; and
         •    Set targets and identify metrics to help measure our success over time.

     PROCESS
       The first step in determining where we want to be as a City was to analyze where we are today, creating a baseline for
       measuring our progress overtime. In January 2014, the Plan Salt Lake Existing Conditions Report was complete. The report
       presents a significant amount of data in many different areas to develop a full and clear picture of Salt Lake City.

       Next, the Plan Salt Lake team undertook an extensive public input and research process, analyzing existing City policies
       and planning documents. Over a two year period, the Plan Salt Lake team received input from thousands of citizens and
       stakeholders.


     IMPLEMENTATION
       Plan Salt Lake establishes a framework for neighborhood, community, and element plans to implement the 2040 Vision.
       The Plan is broken down into thirteen Guiding Principles, each with a set of Initiatives that provide more detail and depth
       to the Vision. Future community master plans and element plans will be guided by these citywide Principles and Initiatives
       and should address how they individually contribute to carrying out the shared Vision identified in this document. Because
       each neighborhood and individual community within Salt Lake City is unique, each community will help carry out the
       Vision in its own unique way.

       A matrix, found on pages 42 and 43, has been developed to help us measure our
       progress overtime. It includes the Guiding Principles and 2014 Targets, as well
       as the unit of measurement and baseline numbers.




4   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE   5
                                       81             PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
                                                      During 2012 and 2013, the Plan Salt Lake team
                                      EVENTS          undertook an extensive public engagement effort to
                                                      identify what Salt Lake City residents and visitors value,



                                   3,035
                                                      and gather input on what the future vision for Salt Lake
                                                      City should be. The team attended 81 events at locations
                                                      across the City and gathered thousands of comments
                                                      from City residents and visitors. From the input

                                 COMMENTS RECEIVED    received, several key themes emerged as priorities
                                                      and values of Salt Lake City residents and visitors.




                                       43
                                                      The public input, along with established City policies,
                                                      was used to create the Vision, Guiding Principles, and
                                                      Initiatives laid out in this Plan.

                                                      The feedback we received affirmed and reiterated much
                                 LOCATIONS CITYWIDE   of what has already been identified as important values
                                                      in existing and previously adopted City policy.




6   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT EVENTS (2012-2013)

                                                                                      Number of Public Engagement Events
                                                                                           Location of a single event
                                                              DISTRICT
                                                                                           2 to 3 events
                                                                  3
                                                                                           4 to 5 events

                                                                                           10 events




       DISTRICT
           1
                  I-215




                                                      NORTH TEMPLE




                                                                               DISTRICT
                                                                                   4


                                                                                       800 S
       DISTRICT
           2

                                                                                      1300 S                                       DISTRICT
                          REDWOOD RD




                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                         DISTRICT
                                                                             5
                                              900 W




                                                      300 W




                     SALT LAKE CITY                                                   2100 S
                                SOUTH SALT LAKE

                                                                     I-80                                               DISTRICT
                                                                                                                            7




                                                                                                                        SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE   7
8   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
& DEVELOPMENT                                                PLACEMAKING
Salt Lake City is committed to sustainable growth            Placemaking is both an idea and a tool. At its root, Placemaking is centered on the belief that public
and development. The Sustainable Salt Lake – Plan            spaces are the core of neighborhoods, communities, and cities. Development plays a critical role in
2015 reflects our current broad and ambitious agenda         shaping public spaces, creating a sense of place and Placemaking. With the right mixture of uses,
to protect our resources, enhance our assets, and            infrastructure, and amenities, desirable, attractive places are formed. Placemaking goes beyond just
establish a path toward greater resiliency and vitality      the urban design of public spaces and takes into consideration how a place can facilitate patterns of
for every aspect of our community. Plan Salt Lake builds     activities and connections that define a place. The policies in Plan Salt Lake establish the framework for
upon the principles and goals identified in Sustainable      creating a sense of place in our neighborhoods, communities, and city overall.
Salt Lake, incorporating sustainability principles
throughout the Plan with the goal of livability and          DIVERSE MIX OF USES
making our City one of the greenest, most inclusive,         By creating places with a diverse mix of uses, building types, connections, and transportation options,
and economically viable cities in the country.               people have the choice of where they live, how they live, and how they get around. As our City grows and
                                                             evolves overtime, having a diverse mix of uses in our neighborhoods citywide will become increasingly
Sustainability concepts can be incorporated into the         important to accommodate responsible growth and provide people with real choices.
design of infrastructure, public spaces, and private
development. These concepts have the potential to            CONNECTIVITY & CIRCULATION
improve the overall quality of life for our community
                                                             Connectivity and circulation are critical to responsible, sustainable growth. We must ensure that our
by reducing energy consumption, improving air and
                                                             neighborhoods and districts are well connected by both providing a wide-range of transportation and
water quality, and providing more lifestyle choices.
                                                             mobility options and increasing the number of connections in our community. Smaller blocks and a
The following concepts should be used to guide future
                                                             diversity of connections are necessary to achieve this.
growth and development in Salt Lake City.
                                                             DENSITY
As the City grows, it needs to consider all aspects of
growth and the impact it has on our streets, parks,          Density and compact development are important principles of sustainable growth, allowing for more
public spaces and buildings, and utilities. Out of           affordable transportation options and creating vibrant and diverse places. Density in the appropriate
necessity, these items need to be found throughout           locations, including near existing infrastructure, compatible development, and major transportation
the City, in every neighborhood. Because they are            corridors, can help to accommodate future growth more efficiently. This type of compact development
required citywide, no master plan can identify the exact     allows people to live closer to where they work, recreate, shop, and carry out their daily lives, resulting in
locations of where all of these facilities may be located.   less automobile dependency and greater mobility.
Major projects, such as new parks, recreation centers,
water treatment facilities, fire and police stations
and other principal buildings should go through a
public process. Minor facilities should be expected
within neighborhoods, often without being specifically
identified in a master plan.




                                                                                                                                        SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE       9
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH &
DEVELOPMENT (continued)
                                       COMPATIBILITY
                                       Compatibility of development generally refers to how a development integrates into the existing scale
                                       and character of a neighborhood. New development should be context sensitive to the surrounding
                                       development, taking into account the existing character of the neighborhood while providing
                                       opportunities for new growth and to enhance the sense of place.

                                       MAXIMIZE PUBLIC INVESTMENTS
                                       The cost of public infrastructure investments, such as transit, can be recaptured through new
                                       development and increases in density. Transit-oriented development maximizes transit infrastructure
                                       benefits through increased ridership and density. This type of development results in more walkable,
                                       vibrant, and accessible neighborhoods, as well as increases in property values and sales tax revenues for
                                       the community.

                                       RESPONSIVE & RESILIENT
                                       Designing infrastructure and development to be adaptable and responsive to a changing climate and
                                       demographic shifts will ensure our community is resilient and meets the changing needs of future
                                       generations. This means creating places that are durable and long lasting while being flexible, allowing
                                       for a diversity of users and uses.

                                       GREEN BUILDING
                                       Green infrastructure and development should incorporate sustainable building best practices including
                                       high performance energy and resource efficiency, renewable energy generation, transit and pedestrian
                                       orientation, storm water and water management, and the use of high quality, durable building materials.




10   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE   11
                                                                                       VISION
          Salt Lake City is the social, economic, and cultural center of the region. It is a place that welcomes all with open arms, isn’t afraid to tackle
          the complex issues of our times, and is committed to effective and transparent governing.

          We are a city that values a healthy lifestyle where we enjoy clean mountain air to breath and fresh water to drink. Our quality of life is
          centered on our access to our natural surroundings and the ability to interact with one another as we walk and bike our kids to school,
          enjoy our numerous cultural resources and events, or shop and dine at our unique local shops and restaurants. Our City respects the
          natural environment and the relationship we have with it. We recognize and value the importance of protecting our quality of life for future
          generations.

          Whether through our ancestry or architecture, our past helps define the context of our City. Every generation and development adds to
          that context. As we grow, we expect that growth will make a positive contribution to our community by respecting our past and adding to
          the definition of the City.

          We expect to have true choices about how we live our lives, from what kind of home we live in to how we travel to work, shop, worship, or
          recreate. We expect to be safe while we are in our neighborhoods and to have the resources and services we need.

          We strive for a complete education for all, understanding that a strong education is the backbone of a successful economic environment.

          We expect that our government will be open, fair, and responsive to the needs of the City. We expect that all people will be treated
          equitably, with dignity and respect, and be free from discrimination and that these tenets will be followed as we see demographic changes.




12   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE   13
                                           GUIDING PRINCIPLES
                   1/ Neighborhoods that provide a safe environment,              8/ A beautiful city that is people focused.
                   opportunity for social interaction, and services needed for
                   the wellbeing of the community therein.                        9/ Maintaining places that provide a foundation for the City
                                                                                  to affirm our past.
                   2/ Growing responsibly while providing people with choices
                   about where they live, how they live, and how they get         10/ Vibrant, diverse, and accessible artistic and cultural
                   around.                                                        resources that showcase the community’s long standing
                                                                                  commitment to a strong creative culture.
                   3/ Access to a wide variety of housing types for all income
                   levels throughout the City, providing the basic human need     11/ Ensure access to all City amenities for all citizens while
                   for safety and responding to changing demographics.            treating everyone equitably with fairness, justice, and
                                                                                  respect.
                   4/ A transportation and mobility network that is safe,
                   accessible, reliable, affordable, and sustainable, providing   12/ A balanced economy that produces quality jobs and
                   real choices and connecting people with places.                fosters an environment for commerce, local business, and
                                                                                  industry to thrive.
                   5/ Air that is healthy and clean.
                                                                                  13/ A local government that is collaborative, responsive, and
                   6/ Minimize our impact on the natural environment.             transparent.


                   7/ Protecting the natural environment while providing
                   access and opportunities to recreate and enjoy nature.




14   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE   15
                                        1/ NEIGHBORHOODS
     GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Neighborhoods that provide a safe environment, opportunity for social interaction,
                                         and services needed for the wellbeing of the community therein.




16    SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
                                                              1/ NEIGHBORHOODS
GUIDING PRINCIPLE/Neighborhoods                               Salt Lake City neighborhoods are diverse, exciting,
                                                              safe, and well maintained. We believe all of our              INITIATIVES
that provide a safe environment,                              neighborhoods should be inclusive and supportive of           1.  Maintain neighborhood stability and character.
opportunity for social interaction, and                       all people, at all stages of life including families, young   2.  Support neighborhoods and districts in carrying
services needed for the wellbeing of the                      people, and older adults.                                         out the City’s collective Vision.
community therein.                                                                                                          3. Create a safe and convenient place for people to
                                                              Our neighborhoods provide valuable opportunities and              carry out their daily lives.
                                                              amenities for recreation, culture, social interaction,        4. Support neighborhood identity and diversity.
                                                              and community gathering places, services, and events.
2040 TARGETS:                                                 These places include businesses, schools, parks and
                                                                                                                            5. Support policies that provides people a choice to
                                                                                                                                stay in their home and neighborhood as they grow
                                                              natural lands, libraries, community events, and more.
1.   COMMUNITY AMENITIES (PARKS, NATURAL LANDS, LIBRARIES,                                                                      older and household demographics change.
                                                              It is important that these resources are located within       6. Incorporate artistic elements and support cultural
     SCHOOLS, RECREATION CENTERS) LOCATED WITHIN 1/4 MILE
                                                              neighborhoods, close to residents and accessible by               events on a neighborhood scale to reinforce
     WALKING DISTANCE OF EVERY HOUSEHOLD                      walking, bicycling, and public transit.
2.   SAFE NEIGHBORHOODS - REDUCTION IN CRIME                                                                                    neighborhood character and identity.
                                                                                                                            7. Promote accessible neighborhood services and
                                                              Our community gathering spaces are vital to our                   amenities, including parks, natural lands, and
                                                              neighborhoods, offering open space and places for                 schools.
                                                              social engagement, learning, community building,              8. Encourage and support local businesses and
We believe that vibrant neighborhoods are fundamental         and opportunities to connect with the community                   neighborhood business districts.
to the health and vitality of Salt Lake City and its          and nature. Community gathering spaces vary by                9. Provide opportunities for and promotion of social
residents and visitors. Our neighborhoods have the            neighborhood and come in many different sizes and                 interaction.
ability to contribute and enhance our quality of life by      forms, from parks and natural lands, to schools and           10. Improve the usefulness of public rights-of-way as
providing basic goods and services, support, safety,          libraries, we value and recognize the important role              usable public space.
amenities, and opportunities for social interaction.          that community spaces play in civic engagement, social        11. Improve green infrastructure (including parks,
                                                              interaction, walkability, and community identity. Our             natural lands, green-ways, and urban forestry) in
Salt Lake City is made up of unique neighborhoods and         neighborhoods must provide access to community                    neighborhoods by incorporating best management
districts, from Downtown’s urban neighborhood, to             gathering spaces, including parks and recreation                  practices for our parks and streetscapes.
the historic Avenues, to the tree lined streets of Rose       facilities, within walking distance in all neighborhoods      12. Support west side business nodes.
Park. Each individual neighborhood contributes to             in our City.
shaping our City as a whole and plays an important role
in helping us fulfill our collective Vision. As a City, our   Neighborhood business districts also play an
neighborhoods, districts, and the residents and visitors      important role in shaping the unique character of our
who live, work, play, and do business within them,            neighborhoods and provide valuable goods and services
define who we are and what we value. It is important          for nearby residents. While they vary in size and draw,
that we embrace and support the character and                 neighborhood business districts contribute to the
uniqueness of each neighborhood, while understanding          overall livability and economic health of our City.
the important role that they play in helping us reach
our collective Vision.




                                                                                                                                      SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE          17
 2/ GROWTH
 GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Growing responsibly, while providing people with choices about where they live,
 how they live, and how they get around.




18   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
                                                                                                            2/ GROWTH
GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Growing                                sustainable building practices, and best practices in
                                                          urban design. With the right tools and policies, growth      INITIATIVES
responsibly, while providing people with                  can enhance quality of life for the residents and visitors   1.   Locate new development in areas with existing 		
choices about where they live, how they                   of Salt Lake City, providing more choices and setting             infrastructure and amenities, such as transit and
live, and how they get around.                            new standards for best practices in development.                  transportation corridors.
                                                                                                                       2.   Encourage a mix of land uses.
                                                          Anticipated future growth provides us an opportunity         3.   Promote infill and redevelopment of underutilized
2040 TARGET:                                              to minimize the negative impacts of population growth
                                                          while maximizing the benefits including increases
                                                                                                                            land.
                                                                                                                       4.   Preserve open space and critical environmental 		
1.   INCREASE SALT LAKE CITY’S SHARE OF THE POPULATION    in political representation, distribution of federal              areas.
     ALONG THE WASATCH FRONT                              funds, stabilized property taxes, and population-            5.   Reduce consumption of natural resources,
                                                          based sales tax revenues. Because of our expansive                including water.
                                                          infrastructure, access to parks and recreation, and          6.   Accommodate and promote an increase in the
                                                          major employment centers, Salt Lake City is uniquely              City’s population.
Responsible growth means minimizing our impact on         situated to accommodate growth. Capitalizing on our
the natural environment while providing people with                                                                    7.   Work with regional partners and stakeholders to
                                                          strengths and welcoming new residents will help us                address growth collaboratively.
lifestyle choices, including a range of housing types     clean our air, promote healthy lifestyles, and increase
and choices citywide, and providing mobility choices                                                                   8.   Provide access to opportunities for a healthy
                                                          the opportunities for people to succeed.                          lifestyle (including parks, trails, recreation, and
through a variety of transportation options including
walking.                                                                                                                    healthy food).
                                                          As we grow and our City becomes more dense and
                                                          urbanized, we must ensure that our community
The key strategies for responsible growth are addressed   is walkable and provides access to amenities that
in the following Initiatives and include an emphasis      contribute to our quality of life, including access and
on transit oriented development (TOD), infill and         opportunities to connect with one another and the
redevelopment of underutilized properties, and            natural environment. Walkability and proximity to the
locating growth and new density in areas that are         places and services necessary to carry out our daily
already serviced by existing infrastructure including     lives will become increasingly important, as will the
Downtown, along transit corridors, and within large       need to protect the natural environment including a
commercial nodes such as the Sugar House Business         connected open space network. It will be important to
District.                                                 consider not only proximity to amenities and services,
                                                          including parks and recreational facilities, but also
In recent decades, Salt Lake City’s population has seen   quantity and quality of these services and amenities
a modest increase but has not kept up with the growth     to ensure they meet the demands of future users and
of the surrounding suburbs along the Wasatch Front.       residents.
Based on current and forecasted trends, it is expected
that Salt Lake City will see a significant population
growth over the next 25 years. It is our responsibility
to ensure growth and development adds to the public
realm through the use of high quality materials,




                                                                                                                                  SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE            19
 3/ HOUSING
 GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Access to a wide variety of housing types for all income levels,
 providing the basic human need for safety and responding to changing demographics.


20   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
                                                                                                         3/ HOUSING
                                                            these changes and demands by providing a range of
GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Access to a wide
                                                            housing types and choices for all abilities, incomes, and
variety of housing types for all income                     stages of life.
levels throughout the city, providing the
basic human need for safety and re-                         Affordability is a critical component of housing choice.
                                                            As people’s income levels rise and fall, providing
sponding to changing demographics.                          housing options that match income levels and stages of
                                                            life will allow people to make their own choices. This
                                                            includes offering a wide range of housing types for all
2040 TARGETS:                                               income levels in neighborhoods throughout the City.
1.   INCREASE DIVERSITY OF HOUSING TYPES FOR ALL INCOME
     LEVELS THROUGHOUT THE CITY
2.   DECREASE PERCENT OF INCOME SPENT ON HOUSING FOR        INITIATIVES
     COST-BURDENED HOUSEHOLDS
                                                            1.   Ensure access to affordable housing citywide
                                                                 (including rental and very low income).
Almost half of the total housing units in Salt Lake are     2.   Increase the number of medium density housing
single-family detached dwellings. While preserving               types and options.
the existing housing stock will continue to be a priority   3.   Encourage housing options that accommodate
for Salt Lake City, over the next 25 years, it will be           aging in place.
critical for us to encourage and support a diversity        4.   Direct new growth toward areas with existing
of new housing options and types with a range of                 infrastructure and services that have the potential
densities throughout the City to best meet the changing          to be people-oriented.
population.                                                 5.   Enable moderate density increases within existing
                                                                 neighborhoods where appropriate.
In recent years, we have seen a renewed interest            6.   Promote energy efficient housing and
in walkable neighborhoods, increased residential                 rehabilitation of existing housing stock.
development downtown, and transit-oriented                  7.   Promote high density residential in areas served by
development. There is a growing demand for urban                 transit.
living, primarily driven by Baby Boomers and                8.   Support homeless services.
Millennials, paired with changing demographics
on a national and local level that include an aging
population, growing minority communities, and an
increase in single-parent households and households
without children. These changing households require
changes to our housing policies and housing stock to
provide choices on how best to meet their needs. The
following Initiatives are focused on helping us meet




                                                                                                                        SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE   21
 4/ TRANSPORTATION & MOBILITY
 GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ A transportation and mobility network that is safe, accessible, reliable, affordable,
 and sustainable, providing real choices and connecting people with places.




22   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
        4/ TRANSPORTATION & MOBILITY
GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ A transportation                         we have an opportunity to better connect and enhance            improved routes for walking, biking and transit.
                                                            our neighborhoods and our quality of life. By including     3.  Prioritize connecting nodes located throughout the
and mobility network that is safe,                          embedded art and pedestrian elements into our                   City to each other with improved walking, biking
accessible, reliable, affordable, and                       transportation network, including streetscapes and              and transit.
sustainable, providing real choices and                     infrastructure, we can reinforce our community              4. Reduce automobile dependency and single
                                                            identity, enhance our quality of life, and better utilize       occupancy vehicle trips.
connecting people with places.                              our public rights-of-way for people, not just cars.         5. Make walking and cycling viable, safe, and
                                                                                                                            convenient transportation options in all areas of
2040 TARGETS:                                               With the 2040 Targets of transit within a ¼ mile of
                                                            all residents, a reduction in single occupancy vehicle
                                                                                                                            the City.
                                                                                                                        6. Prioritize maintenance of existing infrastructure
1.   PUBLIC TRANSIT WITHIN 1/4 MILE OF ALL HOMES            mode-share, and increased safety, we can achieve our            (enhancing quality of life, safety, sustainability, and
2.   REDUCE SINGLE OCCUPANCY AUTO TRIPS                     Vision of clean air and increased mobility choices while        mobility).
3.   DECREASE PEDESTRIAN, BIKE, AND AUTO ACCIDENTS          improving the overall safety, health, and well being of     7. Encourage transit-oriented development (TOD).
                                                            our City                                                    8. Support and enhance the Salt Lake International
                                                                                                                            Airport as a regional and international amenity
                                                                                                                            (including freight).
                                                                                                                        9. Collaborate with regional partners to relieve

                                                            INITIATIVES
Over the next 25 years, our transportation and mobility                                                                     congestion and enhance rights-of-way for
options must expand and offer affordable, safe, and                                                                         alternative modes of transportation.
accessible choices for all, including people with           1.   Create a complete circulation network and              10. Enhance rights-of-way to join, rather than
disabilities, young people, and the elderly. Transit             ensure convenient equitable access to a variety of         segregate, adjacent neighborhoods.
in Salt Lake City must become more accessible and                transportation options by:                             11. Incorporate green infrastructure into our rights-
more convenient in all of our neighborhoods. This                •   Having a public transit stop within 1/4 mile of        of-way and transportation network.
includes more frequent transit service with longer                   all residents.                                     12. Incorporate pedestrian oriented elements,
service hours. Cycling and walking must have the                 •   Expanding pedestrian and bicycle networks              including street trees, pedestrian scale lighting,
necessary infrastructure to ensure that they are not just            and facilities in all areas of the City.               signage, and embedded art, into our rights-of-way
recreational activities but convenient, safe, and viable         •   Providing incentives for the use of transit.           and transportation networks.
transportation options.                                          •   Increase the frequency and service hours of
                                                                     transit in neighborhoods.
In recent years, the transportation network in Salt              •   Enhancing the regional transportation
Lake City has become increasingly multi-modal with                   network.
an expanded transit system and increased bike lanes,             •   Creating a system of connections so that
but the primary form of transportation is still private              residents may easily access employment,
automobile use. This automobile dependency increases                 goods and services, neighborhood amenities,
air pollution and traffic, and encourages development                and housing.
that is designed for cars, not people.                      2.   Prioritize connecting residents to neighborhood,
                                                                 community, regional, and recreation nodes by
Through our infrastructure maintenance and design,




                                                                                                                                   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE              23
 5/ AIR QUALITY
     GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Air that is healthy and clean.



24    SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
                                                                                          5/ AIR QUALITY
                                                               quality and develop a climate adaptation plan that
GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Air that is healthy
                                                               integrates adaptation strategies into our planning
and clean.                                                     processes. We can employ policies that best link land
                                                               use with transportation and target growth in places
                                                               with existing infrastructure and development to
2040 TARGETS:                                                  maximize infrastructure investments, reduce resource
                                                               consumption, and minimize automobile dependency.
1.   REDUCE EMISSIONS
2.   REDUCE CITYWIDE CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY
                                                               Through public policy, education, and collaboration,
                                                               we can improve our air quality in Salt Lake City. With a
                                                               2040 Target of reducing emissions and citywide energy
Air quality has been identified as one of the most             consumption, we aim to do our part in improving air
important issues for Salt Lake City residents and              quality in our City.
is one of the most frequently discussed topics in
the region. This is especially true during the winter
months when the Wasatch Front is plagued by pollutant          INITIATIVES
trapping inversions and deteriorating air quality. The
inversions create more than just a health hazard and           1.   Reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
negative impact on the natural environment, they affect        2.   Reduce individual and citywide energy
overall quality of life for residents and create negative           consumption.
perceptions for visitors and investors.                        3.   Increase mode-share for public transit, cycling,
                                                                    walking, and carpooling.
Poor air quality is directly related to pollutants             4.   Minimize impact of car emissions.
caused by vehicle and industry emissions. It is our            5.   Protect and enhance the existing urban forest,
responsibility to reduce emissions of unhealthy air                 including street trees.
pollutants and climate-changing greenhouse gases to            6.   Support and promote renewable energy sources.
ensure the region’s health, resilience, and quality of life.   7.   Encourage energy efficiency citywide.
Salt Lake City is aggressively working to reduce vehicle       8.   Incorporate climate adaptation strategies into City
emissions and improve air quality through programs                  planning processes.
that conserve electricity and natural gas, encourage           9.   Ensure local industries meet stringent
individuals to decrease their personal motor vehicle                environmental standards.
use, and reduce other sources of air pollution. The City
has been working to reduce both its own internal fleet
emissions, and the vehicle emissions generated by the
community.

With future changes to our climate, we will need to
evaluate and address climate change impacts on air




                                                                                                                          SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE   25
 6/ NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
 GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Minimize our impact on the natural environment.




26   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
                    6/ NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
GUIDING PRINCIPLE/Minimize our                              Water is one of our most precious natural resources.
                                                            With population growth, increasing demand and                 INITIATIVES
impact on the natural environment.                          changes in short- and long-term supply levels due             1.   Preserve natural open space and sensitive areas
                                                            to weather fluctuations and climate change, water                  to sustain biodiversity and ecosystem functions
                                                            conservation is necessary to sustain our water supply
2040 TARGETS:                                               for future and current generations. Salt Lake City is
                                                                                                                               through:
                                                                                                                               •    Increased education regarding stewardship of
                                                            committed to protecting our water supplies, ensuring
1.   EXPAND NATURAL LANDS AND WATERSHED PROTECTION                                                                                  natural lands;
                                                            water quality and safety, and complying with or                    •    Restoration of natural lands and critical
     ACREAGE
                                                            exceeding all EPA requirements. We will continue                        habitat;
2.   REDUCE WATER CONSUMPTION                               working to address our stream and storm water quality
3.   INCREASE RECYCLING AND REDUCE WASTE                                                                                       •    Support of stewardship of City-owned natural
                                                            and to reduce the risk of damage by floods.                             open space;
                                                                                                                               •    Implementation and promotion of best
                                                            Future changes to our climate will have an impact on                    practices in management and stewardship of
                                                            our natural resources and the natural environment.                      natural lands;
                                                            These changes will need to be addressed at a local level.          •    Restoration of aquatic and riparian corridors
                                                            It is our responsibility to plan for and mitigate the                   and habitats (including day-lighting of streams
Salt Lake City is an environmentally conscious              impacts of climate change on our community.
community committed to preserving and protecting                                                                                    and water corridors); and
our natural environment and resources for current and                                                                          •    Reduction in habitat fragmentation.
                                                            Through policies, pricing, and education, we have
future generations.                                         committed to reducing overall waste and greenhouse            2.   Protect water quality and supply by:
                                                            gas emissions, increasing recycling and renewable                  •   Reducing water consumption per capita;
The natural environment that is integrated into our         energy generation, and supporting the highest and best
City and surrounds our community is part of our                                                                                •   Limiting development in the canyons;
                                                            use of materials and land.                                         •   Preserving and expanding acreage of property
identity and one of our most important assets. Our
sense of place is heavily shaped by our location between                                                                           critical to watershed protection;
                                                            Over the next 25 years, we will strive to protect and              •   Operating facilities to ensure water quality
the Wasatch Mountains and the Great Salt Lake, putting      restore critical wildlife habitat, sensitive natural lands,
us at the center of where the mountains, foothills, and                                                                            meets regulatory requirements;
                                                            and open space. These environments are crucial                     •   Promoting and supporting reuse of reclaimed
valley lowland environments merge.                          to water supply and quality and to the ecosystems                      and secondary water sources; and
                                                            that sustain us. We will work to preserve and restore              •   Protecting ground water sources.
As a City, we recognize the importance of protecting        riparian corridors in and around our community.
and managing our natural resources and important
habitat to sustain biodiversity and ecosystem functions.                                                                  3.   Practice responsible waste management by:
We are committed to the protection and stewardship                                                                             •   Reducing and preventing waste;
of our open space, native vegetation, water supply, and                                                                        •   Reusing and repurposing materials, including
aquatic and terrestrial wildlife habitat while providing                                                                           promoting the reuse of existing buildings over
access and educational opportunities for the public.                                                                               demolition; and
We will continue to provide the highest levels of service                                                                      •   Increasing the recycling rate in the City.
and implement policies that will help us do our part in
conservation and stewardship.




                                                                                                                                     SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE            27
                             7/ PARKS & RECREATION
                                       GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Protecting the natural environment while providing
                                                       access and opportunities to recreate and enjoy nature.

28   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
                                      7/ PARKS & RECREATION
GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Protecting the                             Our parks, plaza, greenways, and natural lands all
                                                              contribute to our community identity, sense of place,       INITIATIVES
natural environment while providing                           and livability. These places play an important role in      1.   Balance protection and management of natural
access and opportunities to recreate and                      providing spaces for people to gather and celebrate,             lands with access to recreational opportunities.
enjoy nature.                                                 recreate and engage in organized sports, as well as         2.   Provide accessible parks and recreation spaces
                                                              opportunities for people to connect with nature, find            within 1/2 mile of all residents.
                                                              solitude and offer respite from the built environment.      3.   Enhance trail and open space connectivity through
2040 TARGETS:                                                 Our developed parks are designed to sustain heavy use
                                                              and activities – both active and passive. How our parks
                                                                                                                               improved visual and physical connections.
                                                                                                                          4.   Protect and enhance existing parks, recreational
1.   INCREASE PARK SPACE                                      are used, has and will continue to change over time in           facilities, and trails allowing for modifications to
2.   PARKS OR OPEN SPACE WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE OF EVERY     response to changes in community demographics and                enhance usability and promote activity.
     HOUSEHOLD                                                interests.                                                  5.   Establish level of service standards that address
3.   INCREASE MILES OF TRAILS                                                                                                  type, proximity, quality, and quantity of park
                                                              The City provides opportunities for citizens to                  space that is responsive to both citywide and
                                                              recreate through the development and maintenance                 neighborhood needs.
                                                              of recreation facilities. Recreation programming is         6.   Integrate artistic elements into parks, urban trails,
                                                              provided by Salt Lake County in many of these facilities.        and other urban public spaces.
As a City, we value active communities - ensuring             Private, non-profit leagues also play an important role
access and opportunities for people of all ages, abilities,                                                               7.   Support urban agriculture and local food systems
                                                              in programming many of the ball courts and fields.               that produce healthy and sustainable food for the
and backgrounds to live a healthy lifestyle. This includes
accessible and safe places to recreate and carry out a                                                                         community, while providing valuable open space.
                                                              Along with the many acres of urban parks and natural
variety of physical activities. These places range from       lands, the City owns and maintains thousands of acres
pocket parks and urban plazas to natural lands and trail      of undeveloped public lands. A large portion of these
networks.                                                     lands are located in the foothills and mountains above
                                                              Salt Lake City and provide areas critical to aquifer
Salt Lake City is committed to balancing conservation         recharge, habitat for ecosystem preservation, as well
of important habitat and natural resources with access        as opportunities for low intensity, passive recreational
to recreation and opportunities to enjoy nature.              use.
Our goals are to preserve and steward natural areas,
increase access to parks, and enhance trail and open          We understand that our parks and public spaces need
space connectivity. We are committed to providing             to be safe, accessible, and well connected. In line with
public spaces that serve a multitude of user while            promoting an active community, we believe people of
preserving urban green space. We are dedicated to             all backgrounds, ages, and abilities should be able to
preservation, development, and maintenance of parks           easily access our parks, this means a well connected
throughout the City for the use and enjoyment of the          pedestrian and bicycle network allowing for greater
community. Our current City park system includes              mobility and accessibility.
126 parks consisting of 925 acres and 58 municipal
playgrounds.




                                                                                                                                     SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE             29
 8/ BEAUTIFUL CITY
 GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ A beautiful city that is people focused.




30   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
                                                                   8/ BEAUTIFUL CITY                                        standards and guidelines.
GUIDING PRINCIPLE/A beautiful city
                                                             Our wide public rights-of-way provide us with a unique     2.  Identify and establish standards for key gateways
that is people focused.                                      opportunity to incorporate more than just roadways.            into the City.
                                                             Within this public space, we can incorporate pedestrian    3. Identify, preserve, and enhance view corridors and
2040 TARGETS:                                                elements and green infrastructure that enhances our
                                                             streetscapes and quality of life.
                                                                                                                            vistas, including views of natural lands around and
                                                                                                                            within the City.
1.   PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED DESIGN STANDARDS INCORPORATED                                                                  4. Use art to create and reinforce a sense of place,
     INTO ALL ZONING DISTRICTS THAT ALLOW RESIDENTIAL USES   We value public artwork that enhances the public               including embedded art in infrastructure of all
2.   ACTIVE AND VIBRANT PARKS AND PLAZAS                     realm. We support and promote incorporating art                sizes.
                                                             into public buildings, infrastructure, and public          5. Support and encourage architecture, development,
                                                             spaces. From sidewalks to bridges, we are committed            and infrastructure that:
                                                             to seeking out and supporting opportunities to                 •    Is people-focused;
Salt Lake City is a beautiful city with a distinct urban     incorporate art into all City infrastructure projects.         •    Responds to its surrounding context and
form characterized by our built environment and                                                                                  enhances the public realm;
our pristine natural surroundings and topographical          Salt Lake City residents and visitors recognize our            •    Reflects our diverse cultural, ethnic, and
features. Our large blocks and wide streets contribute       green network, including our urban forest, parks,                   religious heritage; and
to our urban form along with our unique location,            and street trees, as one of our greatest assets. Our           •    Is sustainable, using high quality materials and
nestled against the foothills of the Wasatch Mountains       green network plays an important role in shaping                    building standards.
to the East and the wetlands, Great Salt Lake, and           our streetscapes and urban form. It enhances the           6. Promote and expand the City’s street lighting
Oquirrh Mountains to the West.                               liveability of the City, improving air and water quality       program throughout the City.
                                                             while providing shade, buffering noises, and enhancing     7. Reinforce and preserve neighborhood and district
Open space and the natural environment are defining          walkability and streetscapes citywide. We recognize            character and a strong sense of place.
features of Salt Lake City. Our beautiful City parks         that this green network contributes to a healthy           8. Promote increased connectivity through mid-block
and open spaces, paired with the dramatic views of           and beautiful city and we will continue to make its            connections.
and proximity to the Wasatch and Oquirrh mountains,          maintenance and expansion a priority.                      9. Protect, maintain, and expand the City’s urban
make Salt Lake City a beautiful place to live and visit.                                                                    forest, including the provision of adequate space
These aesthetic and recreational qualities attract new       Our built environment, including buildings and                 and infrastructure for street trees to thrive.
residents, visitors, employers, and investment to our        infrastructure, should be people-focused. Our 2040         10. Develop landscapes that reflect our geographic
City.                                                        Target to incorporate Pedestrian Oriented Design               region.
                                                             Standards into the City’s residential and commercial       11. Create opportunities to connect with nature in
As a City, we believe the built environment should           zones, will help us achieve our Vision of a beautiful,         urban areas.
match the grandeur of our natural setting. We believe        people-oriented city.                                      12. Reinforce the development of a connected green
in urban design and development that enhances our                                                                           network of urban open spaces and forest that
quality of life and reflects our commitment to high                                                                         accommodates active transportation and provides
quality materials, building standards and people-            INITIATIVES                                                    contact with nature.
focused development. We recognize the critical role
that the built environment plays in shaping our sense of     1.   Reinforce downtown as the visually dominant
place, public realm, and overall quality of life.                 center of the City through the use of design




                                                                                                                                  SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE             31
 9/ PRESERVATION
 GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Maintaining places that provide a foundation
 for the City to affirm our past.




32   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
                                                                        9/ PRESERVATION
                                                           neighborhoods.
GUIDING PRINCIPLE/Maintaining
                                                           We recognize that preservation is an important
places that provide a foundation for the                   component of community character and sense
City to affirm our past.                                   of place. In addition to more traditional historic
                                                           preservation tools aimed at preservation of individual
                                                           structures and sites, Salt Lake City offers tools geared
2040 TARGETS:                                              towards stabilizing and preserving neighborhood and
                                                           community character and identity. As our City grows,
1.   INCREASE NUMBER OF PROTECTED STRUCTURES AND SITES     finding the right places to preserve the character is
                                                           as important as finding the right places for growth to
                                                           occur.

Salt Lake City’s Historic Preservation Program aims        We understand and respect that change is part of
to preserve the best examples of the City’s historic       history and that places evolve. As a City, we will
architecture, buildings, landmarks, and landscapes. Our    continue to balance preservation and character
historic preservation tools and resources protect assets   conservation with growth and redevelopment,
that are uniquely historic and best represent the story    prioritizing preservation while allowing flexibility and
of the City’s past.                                        change where appropriate.

As a City, we value neighborhood character and the
defining elements that make up our neighborhoods
and City. The historic development patterns, including
                                                           INITIATIVES
building composition and landscaping, details, and         1.   Preserve and enhance neighborhood and district
elements all play important roles in defining the               character.
character of our places.                                   2.   Encourage the incorporation of historic elements
                                                                into buildings, landscapes, public spaces,
Our City contains a number of officially designated             streetscapes, neighborhoods, and districts where
historic landmarks sites, local and national historic           appropriate.
districts, and other unofficially recognized sites and     3.   Retain areas and structures of historic and
spaces that are unique to us. From City parks and               architectural value.
open spaces to the historic homes and buildings found      4.   Integrate preservation into City regulation, policy,
throughout the our community, Salt Lake City is rich            and decision making.
with places that reflect our unique past. We take great    5.   Balance preservation with flexibility for change and
pride in our history and in our places. While we believe        growth.
it is important to preserve our past by identifying        6.   Improve education and outreach about the value of
and protecting unique places that best tell our story,          historic preservation.
we also recognize that places evolve and change over
time. Change and new development should respect
the character defining elements of our City and




                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE   33
 10/ ARTS & CULTURE
 GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Vibrant, diverse, and accessible artistic and cultural resources that showcase
 the community’s long standing commitment to a strong creative culture.




34   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
                                                           10/ ARTS & CULTURE
                                                           expression. We are committed to integrating art into
GUIDING PRINCIPLE/Vibrant, diverse,
                                                           the fabric of our City. By embedding art into our
and accessible artistic and cultural                       infrastructure, from large-scale infrastructure projects
resources that showcase the community’s                    such as overpasses, bridges, and transit, to small-scale
long standing commitment to a strong                       neighborhood benches and signage, we support and
                                                           recognize embedded art as vital to community identity,
creative culture.                                          expression, and character.

                                                           Salt Lake City is a regional center for arts,
2040 TARGETS:                                              entertainment, and culture and a national and
                                                           international destination for tourism. We are home
1.   INCREASE OVERALL PARTICIPATION IN ARTS AND CULTURAL
                                                           to world class entertainment and cultural venues
     ACTIVITIES
                                                           including museums, theaters, galleries, and sports
2.   EMBEDDED ART IN ALL CITY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS      arenas that add to the vibrancy of our City, Region and
                                                           State.
Salt Lake City residents and visitors recognized our
City and our downtown as the hub of entertainment          Small local venues and events are equally important to
and nightlife for the region. We support the growth        our quality of life. Whether it is a block party, gallery
of existing and new cultural and entertainment             strolls, or live music at a restaurant, bar, or park, the
opportunities, from local restaurants, to concert          intimacy of experiencing local art and culture is a
venues, to museums and theaters. We understand that        defining element of our neighborhoods.
arts and culture play an important role in tourism,
our local and regional economy, and in bringing the
community together. We cannot imagine our City and         INITIATIVES
our neighborhoods without it.
                                                           1.   Support opportunities for vibrant expression of
Our City has a rich culture and vibrant arts community.         cultural diversity.
As a City, we are committed to supporting arts and         2.   Promote and support Salt Lake City as a regional
culture through investment in facilities, events, art in        entertainment, artistic, and cultural center and
infrastructure, and supporting of our local arts and            destination.
culture community. We support many different types         3.   Promote and support Salt Lake City as an
of art and events in our community including national-          international tourism destination.
and regional-scale festivals, concerts, performances,      4.   Ensure access to, and support for, a diversity of
and exhibitions and local, neighborhood-scale festivals,        cultural facilities citywide.
installations, and celebrations.                           5.   Support and encourage public art.
                                                           6.   Seek partnerships to enhance the arts.
We strive to make our parks, plazas, streetscapes, and
other public spaces venues for artistic and creative




                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE   35
 11/ EQUITY
 GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Ensure access to all City amenities for all citizens while treating everyone
 equitably with fairness, justice, and respect.




36   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                       11/ EQUITY
GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Ensure access to                          INITIATIVES
all City amenities for all citizens while
                                                             1.   Recognize and advocate for the rights of all
treating everyone equitably with fairness,                        residents and visitors.
justice, and respect.                                        2.   Ensure access to all City amenities and services.
                                                             3.   Pursue equitable access to privately provided
                                                                  services and amenities across the City.
2040 TARGETS:                                                4.   Support policies that provide housing choices,
                                                                  including affordablity, accessibility and aging in
1.   DECREASE COMBINED COST OF HOUSING AND                        place.
     TRANSPORTATION                                          5.   Promote and foster high rates of social capital.
2.   IMPROVE OUR OPPORTUNITY INDEX SCORE IN ALL AREAS OF     6.   Be among the most inclusive, welcoming, and
     THE CITY                                                     dynamic cities.
                                                             7.   Collaborate with community partners and the
Our City is a place where residents and visitors can live,        private sector to combat discrimination and ensure
work, play, and do business free from discrimination,             safe and equal access.
and be treated with tolerance and respect.                   8.   Provide and promote clear and effective
                                                                  communication.
We are committed to providing universal access and           9.   Educate the public on the importance of
opportunity to all. As a City, we value accessibility in          nondiscrimination, equity, and respect.
all aspects of our community, from access to public
amenities and events, to healthy food, housing,
employment, education, and recreation. In accordance
with the requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act, Salt Lake City works to ensure that
people with disabilities have access to City programs,
services, activities, and facilities.                               THE OPPORTUNITY INDEX
Salt Lake City is a place for opportunity. Using the                The Opportunity Index was developed by Measure of America and Opportunity Nation to set a national
Opportunity Index as a measure of our success                       standard of measuring opportunity in communities throughout the United States. The Index measures 16
overtime, we will strive to provide our citizens with
ample opportunity to improve their quality of life                  indicators on an annual basis and is “designed to connect economic, academic, civic and other factors
through access to quality education, employment,                    together to help identify concrete solutions to lagging conditions for opportunity and economic mobility.”
housing, and community resources.                                   (http://opportunityindex.org/about/)
We will strive to eliminate concentrated areas                      *In 2013, Salt Lake County received a C+ (50.07/100) from the Opportunity Index.
of poverty to improve overall quality of life and
opportunity for all of our residents.




                                                                                                                                     SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE             37
                                                    GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ A balanced
                                                    economy that produces quality jobs and
                                                    fosters an innovative environment for
                                                    commerce, entrepreneurial local busi-
                                                    ness, and industry to thrive.

                                                    2040 TARGET:
                                                    1.   INCREASE HOUSEHOLD INCOME
                                                    2.   PERCENTAGE OF HOUSEHOLDS WITHIN 1/2 MILE OF A NEIGH-
                                                         BORHOOD, COMMUNITY OR REGIONAL BUSINESS NODE.



                                                    As the business, financial, and cultural capital of
                                                    Utah, Salt Lake City has experienced vast economic
                                                    growth and success. Since the Great Recession of
                                                    2008, the City has seen a steady rise in all economic
                                                    indicators including employment, wages, valuation, and
                                                    development. This success has resulted in thousands of
                                                    jobs and millions of dollars in revenue for the City and
                                                    its residents. With its strong downtown core, excellent
                                                    public transportation system, great access to the
                                                    natural environment and resources, and high quality of
                                                    life; Salt Lake City has established itself as the economic
                                                    center of the region and the State.

                                                    While significant strides have been made to improve




 12/ ECONOMY
                                                    the business environment, Salt Lake City understands
                                                    there is more work to be done. Using the City’s existing
                                                    vibrant and diverse economy as a foundation, it has
                                                    the opportunity to create an even more prosperous
                                                    future for its business community and its residents. Salt
                                                    Lake City is committed to developing a comprehensive
                                                    economic development plan that meets the needs of the
 GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ A balanced economy that         businesses and bolsters economic development.
 produces quality jobs and                          In order to achieve economic success, the City’s
                                                    economic development plan will identify goals and
 fosters an environment for commerce, local busi-   objectives, utilizing effective tools, policies, and
 ness, and industry to thrive.


38   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
programs, while being flexible enough to respond to
                                                                                               12/ ECONOMY
economic changes and opportunities. Accompanied
                                                          existing businesses through aggressive recruitment and
                                                          retention efforts to help businesses locate, innovate,    INITIATIVES
by strong leadership and organizational structure, Salt   and grow.                                                 1.   Maintain and grow Salt Lake City as the economic
Lake City will develop the economic vision to establish                                                                  center of the region.
itself as the State and regional leader in economic       To carry out this vision, Salt Lake City has identified   2.   Support the economic growth of Downtown,
development and becoming the next Great American          three primary economic development goals that will be          including:
City.                                                     the catalyst for a detailed economic development plan:         •    Energy Solutions Arena update
                                                                                                                         •    Innovation District in the Granary with an
An economic vision for the City should reflect those      Shift the Culture                                                   activated Fleet Block
values and characteristics that make Salt Lake City       Salt Lake City pledges to address existing barriers            •    Reactivate the Gateway
unique. Our natural setting provides spectacular views,   to economic development with the organization to               •    Develop Station Center
easy access to recreation opportunities and a natural     support a culture of customer service. The City has            •    Expand Research Park in or near the
environment that contributes greatly to our quality of    prioritized economic development at the cabinet level               downtown area
life. Our young, friendly and family-oriented nature      to help evaluate City policy, processes, and programs     3.   Support the growth of small businesses,
shapes our approach as an inventive, resourceful,         through an economic development lens to take                   entrepreneurship and neighborhood business
collaborative and civic-oriented community.               advantage of opportunities to streamline and improve.          nodes.
                                                                                                                    4.   Align economic development tools with each other.
Salt Lake City recognizes that education is linked        Prioritize Commercial Success                             5.   Recruit corporate headquarters and major
to greater opportunity and values its educational         Salt Lake City pledges to support business development         employers to locate in the City.
institutions that provide a robust, highly-educated       through effective and efficient use of economic           6.   Support the redevelopment of Salt Lake City
workforce. The City is home to several higher             development tools. By utilizing and leveraging the             International Airport.
education facilities including the University of Utah,    Economic Development Loan Fund and the Foreign            7.   Improve existing and develop new relationships
Westminster College, LDS Business College, and Salt       Trade Zone, the City can assist new and existing               with economic development partners.
Lake Community College. These institutions play an        businesses grow and thrive. The City will create new      8.   Create an industrial fulfillment center.
important role in our community, contributing to our      and innovative grant programs to assist businesses        9.   Support the growth of the industrial areas of the
culture, our neighborhood and regional character,         and the entrepreneurial community. With greater                City.
research, innovation, and economy.                        collaboration between the Redevelopment Agency and
                                                          the Economic Development Division, the City can better
Neighborhood and local businesses play an important       manage and deploy tools and incentives.
role in place making and creating a unique community
identity. The City will continue to support these         Strengthen Partnerships
neighborhood business nodes citywide and assist them      Salt Lake City pledges to foster new and reaffirm
in their growth. The City also values and encourages      existing partnerships with organizations who share
entrepreneurship and innovation, and sees the creative    our goals to create a Great American City. The City is
economic sector as an important part of our local         blessed with many motivated and passionate partners
and regional economy. In addition, Salt Lake City is      and it will work to further define its relationships
committed to maintaining and improving the City’s         with them and encourage an atmosphere of mutually
position as the prime location in the State for new and   beneficial collaboration.




                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE          39
 13/ GOVERNMENT
 GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ A local government that is collaborative,
 responsive, and transparent.



40   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
                                                                             13/ GOVERNMENT
                                                             The following Initiatives are derived from the
GUIDING PRINCIPLE/A local
                                                             City’s adopted policies on openness, collaboration,
government that is collaborative,                            accountability, and transparency.
responsive, and transparent.
                                                             INITIATIVES
2040 TARGET:
                                                             1.  Ensure easy access to complete and
1.   INCREASE PUBLIC PARTICIPATION                               understandable information.
                                                             2. Provide opportunities for public participation,
                                                                 input, and engagement throughout the decision
                                                                 making process.
                                                             3. Utilize best practices in technology to maximize
In 2009, Mayor Becker and the Salt Lake City Council             efficiency, transparency, and public participation.
jointly adopted the City’s Open Government Policy,           4. Facilitate open communication and transparency.
recognizing the value of an open, transparent,               5. Encourage collaboration and partnerships to
accountable, and efficient government. The policy                ensure efficiency and responsiveness.
outlines basic principles that an open government            6. Maintain and enhance City infrastructure in a way
should consistently follow.                                      that is equitable and fair.
                                                             7. Collaborate to set short- and long-term priorities
As a City, we value collaboration and efficiency,                and invest accordingly.
recognizing the importance of collaboration both             8. Support and promote opportunities for education
within City government departments and divisions,                in all stages of life.
as well as with non-governmental organizations               9. Protect people and property from crime.
(NGOs), community stakeholders, and the public.              10. Maintain a safe and healthy natural and human
We understand that collaboration leads to effective,             environment.
efficient, and innovative solutions and that NGOs play       11. Be prepared for severe disasters and develop a
a critical role in providing valuable services to our            resiliency plan to recover from major disasters.
community.                                                   12. Prepare for climate change impacts on community
                                                                 health and safety.
It is the role and responsibility of government to reflect   13. Improve licensing and permitting processes.
and incorporate the interests, needs, and desires of the
public. At Salt Lake City, we strive to actively educate
and engage the public in the civic process. Engagement
is encouraged, celebrated, and offered through a wide
variety of channels from community councils and City
commissions to innovative public outreach efforts like
Open City Hall.




                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE   41
 14/ WATER CONSERVATION
 AND LAND USE PLANNING
 GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Grow in a manner that ensures water supply meets demand and provides sufficient
 redundancy to respond to water supply risks.


42   SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
                              14/ WATER CONSERVATION
                               AND LAND USE PLANNING
GUIDING PRINCIPLE/ Grow in a manner                         POLICIES                                                     4.   Support zoning regulations that promote sustainable
                                                                                                                              landscaping practices to reduce outdoor water use
that ensures water supply meets demand                                                                                        and stormwater runoff, including:
                                                            1.   Update water supply and demand plans every
and provides sufficient redundancy to                            five years, or as appropriate, to maintain an
                                                                                                                              •   Water wise landscaping that limits the use of
respond to water supply risks.                                   understanding of the effect current development has
                                                                                                                                  high-water consuming turf and prohibits turf
                                                                 on water demand and water infrastructure needs.
                                                                                                                                  on steeper slopes, in small, landscaped areas,
2060 METRICS:                                               2.   Utilize current Conservation Plan strategies to                  and in park strips.
                                                                 meet the Water Supply & Demand Plan goals.                   •   Prioritize the maintenance, water,
1.   CITYWIDE PER CAPITA WATER USE.                                                                                               and planting of trees.
                                                            3.   Update community plans and zoning regulations                •   Reduce the amount of water used to irrigate
                                                                 to reduce the amount of water demand and per                     park strips within city rights of way through
Salt Lake City provides water services not only to                                                                                elimination of overwatering and water waste.
                                                                 capita water use for future development.
properties within the city boundaries, but to properties                                                                      •   Promote the maintenance and update of
outside of the city as well. This creates a great                •   Develop consistent future land use regulations               irrigation systems to reduce water waste.
responsibility to manage water resources responsibly                 across all community and small area plans                •   Establish regulations that reduce storm
for current and future generations.                                  to better understand the impact future                       water runoff, including appropriate grading,
                                                                     development has on water demand and supply.                  landscaping, and limits on impervious surfaces.
The City is also expected to grow significantly between
                                                                 •   Identify land uses with high water consumption
now through at least 2040. Planning our growth is                                                                        5.   Support actions that improve the City’s water
                                                                     and develop water saving strategies.
necessary to ensure that the city can provide clean,                                                                          resiliency, including:
                                                                 •   Support decreased lot size and
safe drinking water for residents and visitors while also
                                                                     configuration standards.
ensuring water is available for businesses.                                                                              •    Strategies identified in the current Water
                                                                 •   As supply availability reduces, consider
                                                                     additional programs, policies, and regulations           Conservation Plan.
To accomplish this, the city will continue efforts to                                                                    •    Ensure water is conserved and used efficiently at
reduce water demand and eliminate water waste,                       that can reduce water use.
                                                                 •   Review allowed land uses in the zoning code              City facilities and operatus.
through changing development patterns, reducing                                                                          •    Investments into the City’s water, stormwater, and
overall water use, improving delivery systems, and                   and consider prohibiting land uses that
                                                                     consume large amounts of water.                          wastewater infrastructure.
appropriately pricing the cost of water based on the                                                                     •    Strategies promoting the health of Great Salt Lake,
amount of water consumed.                                        •   Consider incentives for new and existing
                                                                     developments to utilize low-water demand                 the City’s Wasatch Mountain watersheds, the
                                                                     landscaping and fixtures.                                Jordan River, and its tributaries.
The following policies and initiatives will help the city
                                                                 •   When needed, require new development to             •    Climate adaptation and mitigation.
ensure future residents, visitors, and businesses have
adequate water in the future.                                        contribute water to increase the supply of water.




                                                                                                                                    SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE            43
CONSIDERATION OF WATER CONSUMPTION
FOR EXISTING AND FUTURE POPULATION

Salt Lake City Public Utilities provides water service to     For planning purposes, the City is incorporating
areas outside the city that include other cities on the       Scenario 2, which includes increased water
eastern side of the valley, south of Salt Lake City. Public   conservation and the development of the City’s
Utilities prepares a new 40-year Long Range Water             remaining water rights by the year 2060.
Supply & Demand Plan approximately every five years,
with the most recent plan prepared in 2022, primarily         The City also utilizes the current Conservation Plan,
using 2018 data. The water demand projections are             which is informed by the Water Supply & Demand
based on the water service area population below.             Plan, for strategies to meet this goal. This is subject to
                                                              change, as long-range water supply and demand plans
In 2023 the service area used 154 gallons of water per        are regularly updated to incorporate new information.
capita per day. This amount takes the daily water use
for all land uses (not just residential) and divides it by
the service area population. The population projections
for the service area are from the 2022 Water Supply &
                                                              ANNUAL WATER PRODUCTION REQUIREMENTS
Demand Plan.

Salt Lake City is expected to grow up to 272,468 people                           25% Reduction in Per       Conservation       Conservation      Conservation
                                                                                                                                                                    Service Area
by 2060, with the city’s water service area population              Year         Capita Use in Acre Feet     Scenario 1 in      Scenario 2 in     Scenario 3 in
                                                                                                                                                                     Population
growing to 447,804. The anticipated demand, with the                               (current state goal)       Acre Feet           Acre Feet        Acre Feet
regional goal reduction of 25%, will be 122,300-acre feet
of water. This exceeds the anticipated supply (during
                                                                    2025                 105,100                103,500            91,000            74,500            378,838
dry years).

The current Water Supply & Demand Plan outlines three
conservation planning scenarios to test the ability of              2030                 111,300                109,600            96,600            79,300            401,049
 the city’s water supply to reliably meet demand by
the year 2060.
                                                                    2040                 117,400                 115,700           102,300           84,600            424,671
•    Scenario 1 - Water savings primarily by improved
     efficiency. Does not represent significant changes
     in lifestyle or development patterns.
•    Scenario 2 - Additional water conservation                     2050                 122,300                120,500            106,700           88,600            447.804
     efforts through partial conversion to higher-
     efficiency household fixtures and lower water use
     landscaping methods.                                           2060                 127,200                 125,200           111,200           92,600            470,704
•    Scenario 3 - Maximum likely conservation,
     including full conversion to both higher-
     efficiency household fixtures and low water use
                                                                                                                             Source: 2022 Salt Lake City Water Supply & Demand Plan
     landscaping methods.




44     SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
[ THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK ]
PLAN SALT LAKE MATRIX
GUIDING PRINCIPLE                                        METRIC                                    BASELINE                      2040 TARGET
 1/ NEIGHBORHOODS
Neighborhoods that provide a safe environment,          METRIC 1/ Amenities located within 1/4 1/ (See Existing Conditions 1/ Community Amenities (Parks, Natural lands,
opportunity for social interaction, and services needed mile of households                     Report pg. 42, 44, 50, 60, 66) libraries, schools, rec centers) located within 1/4
for the wellbeing of the community therein.             METRIC 2/ Violent Crimes/100k people 2/ 673 violent crimes/100k mile walking distance from every household
                                                                                               people (2012)                  2/ Safe Neighborhoods - Reduction in Crime

2/
2/GROWTH
   GROWTH
Growing responsibly, while providing people with         METRIC 1/ Total Population of SLC     1/ 191,180 people (2013           1/ Increase Salt Lake City’s share of the population
choices about where they live, how they live, and how    METRIC 2/ Total Population of Wasatch estimate)                         along the Wasatch front
they get around.                                         Front (Weber, Davis, Salt Lake, Box   2/ 2,217,304 people (2010)
                                                         Elder, and Utah counties).

3/
3/HOUSING
   HOUSING
Access to a wide variety of housing types for all income METRIC 1/ % of Housing Units (by type) 1/ 81,178 total housing units 1/ Increase diversity of housing types
levels, providing the basic human need for safety and    METRIC 2/ % of cost-burdened house- (48% SF, 31% >20 units           2/ Decrease % of income spent on housing for cost-
responding to changing demographics.                     holds (spending 35% or more of monthly attached, 21% <20 units       burdened households
                                                         income on housing)                     attached) 2/ 26.1% (owners),
                                                                                                39.4% (renters)

4/
4/TRANSPORTATION
   TRANSPORTATION
A transportation and mobility network that is safe,      METRIC 1/ # of Housing Units within 1/4 1/ TBD                          1/ Public transit within 1/4 mile of all homes
accessible, reliable, affordable, and sustainable,       mile of transit                         2/ SOV make up 69% of           2/ Reduce single occupancy auto trips
providing real choices and connecting people with        METRIC 2/ SOV mode-share %              total mode-share                3/ Decrease pedestrian, bike, and auto accidents
places.                                                  METRIC 3/ Average VMTs/yr/capita        3/ 7,400 VMTs/year (2010)
                                                         METRIC 4/ # of accidents                4/ TBD


5/ AIR QUALITY
Air that is healthy and clean.                           METRIC 1/ Metric tons of carbon           1/ 4.75 million metric tons   1/ Reduce emissions
                                                         dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions/      of CO2e emissions (2009)      2/ Reduce citywide consumption of energy (reduce
                                                         year                                                                    carbon footprint 50% below the 2005 level by 2040)


6/ NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
Minimize our impact on the natural environment.          METRIC 1/ Watershed protection lands      1/ 26,000 acres               1/ Expand natural lands and watershed protection
                                                         purchased to date (2011)                  2/ 210 gallons per capita     acreage
                                                         METRIC 2/ Water consumption per           3/ 40.8% (31,643 tons) of     2/ Reduce water consumption
                                                         capita (2013)                             household waste (FY 13/14)    3/ Increase recycling and reduce waste
                                                         METRIC 3/ Household waste diverted
                                                         from landfill (%, and tons)




46     SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                    PLAN SALT LAKE MATRIX
GUIDING PRINCIPLE                                       METRIC                                    BASELINE                      2040 TARGET
7/ PARKS & RECREATION
Protecting the natural environment while providing     METRIC 1/ Acres of park space              1/ 680 acres of park space    1/ Increase park space
access and opportunities to recreate and enjoy nature. METRIC 2/ Acres of natural lands           2/ 1185 acres of natural      2/ Parks or open space within walking distance of
                                                       METRIC 3/ Miles of trails                  lands                         every household
                                                                                                  3/ 36 miles of trails         3/ Increase miles of trails

8/ BEAUTIFUL CITY
A beautiful city that is people focused.                METRIC 1/ % of zoning districts with    1/ 27% of all districts (2014) 1/ Pedestrian Oriented Design Standards
                                                        pedestrian orientation design standards 2/ 498 Event permits           incorporated into all zoning district (w/ res. uses)*
                                                        METRIC 2/ # of event permits            issued (FY13/14)               2/ Active and vibrant parks and plazas

9/ PRESERVATION
Maintaining places that provide a foundation for the    METRIC 1/ # of historic districts and  1/ 7 local historic districts,   1/ Increase number of protected structures and sites
City to affirm our past.                                character conservation districts       0 character conservation
                                                        METRIC 2/ # of Historic Landmark Sites districts (2013)
                                                                                               2/ 281 Historic Landmark
                                                                                               sites (2013)

10/ ARTS & CULTURE
Vibrant, diverse, and accessible artistic and cultural METRIC 1/ Local Arts Index,                1/ 225.3 participation score 1/ Increase overall participation in arts and cultural
resources that showcase the community’s long standing participation (county wide level data)      2/ N/A (no data available - activities
commitment to a strong creative culture.               METRIC 2/ % of City Infrastructure         new initiative)              2/ Embedded art in all city infrastructure projects
                                                       projects with art/artist on staff

11/ EQUITY
Ensure access to all City amenities for all citizens while METRIC 1/ Location Affordability       1/ 41%                        1/ Decrease combined cost of housing and
treating everyone equitably with fairness, justice, and (% of income spend on housing &           2/ 4.9/10 citywide            transportation
respect.                                                   transportation combined)               (2.5/10 Westside, 6.3 /10     2/ Improve our opportunity index score in all areas
                                                           METRIC 2/ Opportunity Index Score      Eastside w/1-15 as divide)    of the City
                                                                                                  (2013)

12/ ECONOMY
A balanced economy that produced quality jobs and       METRIC 1/ Median household income         1/ $44,501 (2010)             1/ Increase household income
fosters an environment for commerce, local business,    METRIC 2/ Total valuations (FY13/14)      2/ $936,930,676 (FY13/14)
and industry to thrive.                                 METRIC 3/ Total sales tax revenue         3/ $ 48,834,004 (FY13/14)
                                                        (FY13/14)

13/ GOVERNMENT
A local government that is collaborative, responsive,   METRIC 1/ % of registered voters who      1/ 23%                        1/ Increase public participation
and transparent.                                        participated in the Official 2011 General
                                                        Election Canvass




                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE              47
CITY IMPLEMENTATION TOOLS
                                                           MINIMUM
                                                                                                                            PROPERTY
                                               MANAGING    TIME TO                                            PUBLIC                                BUSINESS   PROGRAMS,
      TOOL                 PURPOSE                                    PARTNERS       LIMITATIONS                           ACQUISITION    HOUSING
                                                ENTITY      ACCESS                                        INFRASTRUCTURE                            SUPPORT    SOFT COSTS
                                                                                                                           AND DISPOSAL
                                                            FUNDS

Urban Renewal           Eliminate blight         RDA        3-5 YRS     Taxing      Can only be used
Area (URA)                                                              Entity         to capture               ●               ●            ●
                                                                      Committee       property tax

Economic               Create new and            RDA        2-3 YRS     Taxing      Can only be used
Development Area      higher paying jobs                                Entity         to capture               ●               ●            ●
(EDA)                                                                 Committee       property tax

Community            Promote development         RDA        2-3 YRS    Individual    May be used to
Development Area                                                         Taxing     capture sales tax           ●               ●            ●         ●           ●
(CDA)                                                                   entities    and property tax

SLC Business          Provide low interest        ED         N/A       Business       Geared toward
Revolving Loan        loans to businesses                               owners      for-profit entities                         ●                      ●
Fund (RLF)           located in or moving                                                 only
                          to the City

Foreign Trade             Economic                ED         N/A       Business                                                                        ●
Zone (FTZ)               development                                    owners

Business                Raise funds for           ED        varies     Business     Funding sources
Improvement          marketing, branding,                               owners,     must be voluntary           ●                                      ●           ●
District (BID)       safety, and security of                          community       agreed to by
                       business districts                                             participants

Community              Improve housing,          HAND        9 Mo.    Community,     Limited use for
Development Block     public facilities, and                          City Depts.    new construc-
Grant (CDBG)         infrastructure for low                                          tion; currently            ●               ●            ●                     ●
                     and moderate income                                               not used for
                            persons                                                     economic
                                                                                      development

Capital                Improve streets,          HAND        1 YR     Community,      Used almost
Improvement            parks and public                               City Depts.    exclusively for            ●               ●
Program (CIP)             buildings                                                     physical
                                                                                     improvements

Neighborhood           Provide matching        ED/HAND      3-6 Mo.   Community      Cannot be used
Matching Grant             grants for                                                 by individual             ●
(NMG)                  neighborhood im-                                               businesses or
                      provement projects                                                persons

Special Assessment    Improve the public       ENGINEER-    18 Mo.     Property
Area (SAA)            way through special         ING                   owners                                  ●                                      ●           ●
                       tax assessments

City Arts Grants     Financial support for      ARTS        Varies    Community
                      arts programs and        COUNCIL                                                          ●                                                  ●
                            projects

Community             Promote Develop-         ED/HAND      Varies    Community,
Development                ment                                         HAND                                                                 ●         ●           ●
Corporation (CDC)


48    SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
POTENTIAL TOOLS
This section also includes a brief list of tools that        Transfer of Development Rights (TDR)                           Zoning Incentives
are not currently used but the city may consider             TDR is a tool that is intended to promote the                  Salt Lake City currently uses zoning incentives in the
establishing after weighing the pros and cons of doing       preservation of open space, historic buildings and other       Transit Station Area (TSA) zoning district. The incentives
so. Some of these tools may require changes to state         important places in the city by allowing a property owner      include additional building height and a quicker approval
law, city policy, or new resources, to establish, manage     to sell their unused development rights to someone             process when a development includes certain elements
and administer. As with any city program, the cost           else for use on another property. TDR programs are             above what is required by the base zoning standards.
of establishing these tools should be considered to          authorized by state statute and have been used in              This tool is less than 5 years old and has been well
determine if they are worthwhile.                            Utah, primarily for preserving agricultural land. They         received by the development community. This requires
                                                             purposefully set a maximum development right in                a high degree of work from the Planning Division to
There are numerous tools that are used in cities             transfer areas and receiving areas to create a market          work with stakeholders to draft the zoning regulations,
nationwide to help implement master plans. Most              for the transfer. This means that some receiving areas         incentives, guidelines and the process for review. Some
tools involve some revenue source, usually an                have zoning regulations that intentionally limit the           residents do not like the process as it may remove
additional tax or capture of existing tax, that is used      development right in the hopes that the free market will       community input at the development level.
to pay for infrastructure improvements, stimulate new        purchase the right from owners in the transfer areas.
development, historic preservation, create or retain         This tool can require significant administrative oversight,    Historic Preservation Grants & Loans
jobs, job training, and other purposes that are similar      require long term commitment to the program, and               Similar to the federal program, some cities utilize grants
to the goals and actions found in the Downtown               manipulate the private development market.                     and loans to encourage historic preservation and
Master Plan. This list is not meant to be all inclusive or                                                                  adaptive reuse of historic buildings. These are generally
definitive, but is intended to identify possibilities that   Transportation Development Districts                           funded out of the general fund and eligible properties
may make it easier, more cost effective and speed            A Transportation Development District is a tool that           are those that are locally listed as a cultural resource.
up the implementation of this plan. It purposefully          increases property taxes within a defined area to              It is possible that a fund could be set up to apply to any
does not list the numerous federal programs that             support transportation improvement projects. Most              building that may be historic but is not listed. This tool
exist to support local governments, such as the              often, these are used to fund the building of transit lines.   requires funding and the allocation of staff resources to
various transportation funding bills and programs.           They are typically approved by vote of residents living        administer the program.
These programs change frequently and those city              within the defined area. They are often managed by a
departments that seek those funds are typically aware        city department with funding allocations approved by the       Workforce Housing
of the options and requirements.                             legislative body.                                              Workforce housing programs are often ways to help
                                                                                                                            fund housing in qualifying census tracts. This tool works
                                                             Property Tax Abatement                                         well in areas with lower property values and may work
                                                             Many communities use property tax abatements to                in some parts of the downtown. Senior Housing often
                                                             incentivize new development. This requires coordination        qualifies for this funding source.
                                                             with multiple government agencies. Typically, a project
                                                             has to meet minimum thresholds to qualify, such as             Facade Improvement Programs
                                                             investments over a certain amount or creation of a             This type of program is intended to improve storefronts,
                                                             minimum number of jobs that exceed the city’s median           particularly along streets that are intended to be
                                                             income. Abatement areas and the process to qualify,            pedestrian oriented streets. They are typically low
                                                             review and approve are established by ordinance.               interest or grant based. A match from the applicant is
                                                             These programs run the risk of negatively impacting            often required.
                                                             the city’s revenues generated by property taxes and
                                                             could impact the manner in which property taxes are
                                                             calculated.




                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE             49
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS                                                  ADMINISTRATION                                            PLAN SALT LAKE PROJECT TEAM
                                                                  Ralph Becker, Mayor                                       Wilf Sommerkorn, Planning Director
This Plan is a result of invaluable input, expertise, and
                                                                  Eric D. Shaw, Community & Economic Development Director   Cheri Coffey, Assistant Planning Director
collaboration offered by dozens of organizations and
                                                                  Mary DeLaMare-Schaefer, Community & Economic 		           Nick Norris, Planning Manager
thousands of individuals. The Plan Salt Lake team would
                                                                     Development Deputy Director                            Michaela Oktay, Planning Manager
like to thank the Salt Lake City Departments and Divisions
                                                                                                                            BreAnne McConkie, Principal Planner and Project Manager
directors and staff, the Stakeholder Working Group, Technical
Committee, Champion Group, and the numerous community             CITY COUNCIL                                              Elizabeth Buehler, Project Manager (former)
                                                                                                                            John Anderson, Principal Planner
councils, boards, and groups that contributed to the Plan,
                                                                  Lisa Adams                                                Katia Pace, Principal Planner
as well as the public for their irreplaceable insight and
                                                                  Luke Garrott (Vice Chair)                                 Daniel Echeverria, Principal Planner
participation. Although it is impossible to acknowledge all who
                                                                  Kyle LaMalfa                                              Michael Maloy, Principal Planner
contributed, we would like to thank everyone who shared their
                                                                  Charlie Luke (Chair)                                      Ana Valdemoros, Principal Planner
ideas, time, and passion for the future of Salt Lake City.
                                                                  Erin Mendenhall
                                                                  Stan Penfold                                              PHOTO CREDITS
                                                                  James Rogers
                                                                                                                            • Cover, Page 3, 5, 15, 20, 22, 24, 30, 34-36, 40, back cover, Lance
                                                                  PLANNING COMMISSION                                         Tyrrell
                                                                                                                            • Page 6. Katia Pace
                                                                  Emily Drown (Chair)                                       • Page 8, 11, 28, 38, Mike Schirf, Mike Schirf Photography
                                                                  Angela Dean                                               • Page 13, Nick Britton
                                                                  Michael Fife                                              • Page 16, Jeffrey Miller
                                                                  Michael Gallegos                                          • Page 18, Michael Dubreuil (Crystal Light, 2013. Artist
                                                                  James Guilkey                                               Catherine Widgery)
                                                                  Carolynn Hoskins                                          • Page 26, Jesse Peterson (Bonneville Shoreline Preserve)
                                                                  Matt Lyon                                                 • Page 32, David Newkirk (courtesy Downtown Alliance)
                                                                  Clark Ruttinger (Vice Chair)                              • Page 46, Lance Tyrrell (Sugar Beet, 2003. Artist Day
                                                                  K. Marie Taylor                                             Christensen)
                                                                  Matthew Wirthlin




      PLAN SALT LAKE                                                                                                                                                 AUGUST 2014



50     SALT LAKE CITY | PLAN SALT LAKE
