[[page 765 (fitz index)]]
 
 
Salt Lake city 
 
Who is filling out this report? 
Ruedigar Matthes 
Policy Manager 
ruedigar.matthes@slc.gov 
385-415-4701 
 
Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element: 
 
 
Link to adoption resolution or ordinance: 
https://webdme.slcgov.com/AdoptedLegislation/DocView.aspx?id=5341293&dbid=0&repo=SLC 
&cr=1 
 
 
Link to general plan, moderate income housing element: 
https://www.slc.gov/can/wp-content/uploads/sites/8/2023/05/Housing-SLC-Plan_No- 
Appendices.pdf 
 
You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make 
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose 
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting. 
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on 
last year. 
763

[[page 766 (fitz index)]]
 
 
 
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan 
tasks and timelines we reported on last year. 
 
2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If 
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in 
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles 
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your 
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and 
recommendation regarding the MIH program 
 
 
ZONING MAP 
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map. 
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances. 
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial 
Resource Center. 
 
 
Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type 
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps 
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov. 
https://maps.slc.gov/mws/zoning-lg.htm 
 
When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur? 
July 8, 2025 (note, the online map does not yet reflect the changes) 
 
ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that 
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other 
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned 
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. 
Do not include any parcels or 
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a 
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it 
in this data. 
If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or 
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your 
report. 
 
 
Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a 
building permit. 
1,868 units 
764

[[page 767 (fitz index)]]
 
 
Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide 
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the 
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that 
have NOT pulled a building permit. 
An approximate number is 15,000 units. It is difficult to get an exact number as there are 
numerous factors that impact this. 
 
Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions, 
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned 
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units 
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building 
permit. 
Single family: 474 units, Two family: 18 units, Multi-family: 4,000 units 
 
From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which 
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities 
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units, 
parcels, or lots. 
Not accessible. 
 
 
Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These 
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc. 
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to 
support the data reported above. 
Cost of land, available land, available land that meets zoning requirements, cost of construction, 
time and difficulty of planning processes. 
 
Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming 
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.). 
The number of entitled units was derived from a list of all Planning petitions submitted since 
March 2021. We removed petitions that (1) weren't approved by Planning Commission (PC), (2) 
approved but never submitted permits within 1 year and didn't request an extension from the 
PC, and (3) those that submitted complete permit plans but a permit was never issued and their 
permit file had expired.For potential units, this number is difficult to pin down. There are many 
factors at play and many of Salt Lake City’s zoning districts do not have a prescribed density. 
This number is strictly based on parcel area and maximum building height. The size of the units 
used in this number is 1,500sqft. 
 
 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS 
 
The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external, 
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date. 
765

[[page 768 (fitz index)]]
 
 
 
 
How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units? 
(select one) 
Count of building permits issued 
 
Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission 
date: 
87 
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or 
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025: 
27 ADUs 
 
Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or 
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025: 
No new business licenses issued since 8/1/2024. 
 
 
Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or 
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please 
provide the count and type of permit or license issued) 
27 ADU permits issued 
766

[[page 769 (fitz index)]]
 
 
 
 
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS 
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing 
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on 
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report. 
 
1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or 
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. 
(For the list of 
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for 
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties) 
C 
E 
F 
G 
H 
I 
J 
K 
L 
M 
P 
O 
X 
T 
U 
V 
W 
 
2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and 
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. 
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an 
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the 
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an 
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is 
still helpful to making progress on the strategy. 
C 
C.1 Increase funding for acquisition, rehabilitation, and development of affordable housing - 
Based on research, develop recommendations for increasing funding for affordable housing 
(2024)C.2 Incentivize the purchase and conversion of hotels, motels, and other buildings to 
deed-restricted deeply affordable and transitional housing - Develop incentive and funding 
strategy, work with partners to determine priority sites Identify land-use barriers that may exist 
(2024)C.3 Adopt an adaptive reuse ordinance to facilitate the conversion of historic buildings 
into housing - Adopt Adaptive Reuse ordinance (2024) 
767

[[page 770 (fitz index)]]
 
 
 
E 
E.1 Adopt revised Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) ordinance to make the development of ADUs 
easier and more widespread throughout the city - Monitor response to ordinance adoption 
through annual reporting on number of Accessory Dwelling Units created (2024)E.2 Make it 
easier to build tiny homes as a form of deeply affordable/transitional housing through zoning, 
funding, and streamlined plan and design review - Convene a working group to research best 
practices, determine land use and building code barriers, and explore options for geographic 
equity (2024)E.3 Develop a library of pre-approved Accessory Dwelling Unit plans that 
residents can access - Develop and publish library of pre-approved building plans for Accessory 
Dwelling Units and host on City website (2024)E.4 Facilitate the completion of phase one of 
The Other Side Village pilot program - Phase one of The Other Side Village project complete 
with residents living in tiny homes (2024)E.5 Incentivize deed-restricted affordable Accessory 
Dwelling Units across the city with a focus on areas of high opportunity - Convene a working 
group to research best practices for incentivizing deed-restrictions on ADUs (2024) 
 
F 
F.1 Continue increasing density limits in areas next to or near major transit investment corridors, 
commercial centers, or employment centers and where high density development is compatible 
with adjacent land uses - Monitor response to increased building height limits ordinance through 
annual reporting on number of properties using ordinance, number of units created, etc. (2024, 
ongoing) 
G 
G.1 Increase building height limits in compatible areas of the city - Monitor response to 
increased building height limits ordinance through annual reporting on number of properties 
using ordinance, number of units created, etc. (2024, ongoing) 
 
H 
H.1 Implement parking reduction ordinance - Monitor response to reduced parking 
requirements ordinance through annual reporting on number of properties using ordinance, 
number of units created, affordability of units, etc. (2024, ongoing) 
 
I 
I.1 Implement shared housing ordinance that allows for single room occupancy developments - 
Monitor response to shared housing ordinance through annual reporting on number of 
properties using ordinance, number of units created, affordability of units, etc. (2024, ongoing 
 
J 
J.1 Adopt and implement the Affordable Housing Incentives Ordinance - Adopt Affordable 
Housing Incentives Ordinance (2024) 
 
K 
K.1 Support projects that allow tenants to build wealth and/ or gain equity in their building based 
on tenure - Develop pilot program or partnership (2024) 
768

[[page 771 (fitz index)]]
 
 
L 
L.1 Continue to reduce and waive impact fees on eligible projects as allowed by Salt Lake City Code 
Chapter 18.98 - Continue to reduce and waive impact fees on eligible affordable housing developments 
when such waivers and reductions are applied for (2024, ongoing) 
 
M 
M.1 Continue to manage and expand City’s Community Land Trust (CLT) program - Draft strategy and receive 
feedback from community partners, public, and City Council (2024)M.2 Explore the feasibility of issuing home 
equity conversion mortgages to existing homeowners in return for a deed restriction, possibly through the City’s 
Homebuyer Program - Develop program framework (2024)M.3 Work with community development partners to 
acquire priority properties for permanently affordable housing - Develop framework for partnership (2024) 
 
P 
P.1 Continue to release housing funds through Redeveloment Agency of Salt Lake CIty (RDA) Notices of 
Funding Availability (NOFA) for development or acquisition of moderate income housing - Continue to release 
annual Notices of Funding Availability based on affordable housing set-aside funding from project area budgets, 
prioritizing funding for projects based on RDA board guidance (2024, ongoing) 
P.2 Utilize Inland Port Housing Funds (pursuant to Utah Code Section 11-58-601(6)(b) of the Inland Port Act) 
and other housing set-aside funds received by the Redevelopment Agency (RDA) to expand affordable housing 
options, including tenant equity opportunities throughout the city, especially on the west side - Continue 
researching best practices for tenant wealth and equity building opportunities and further refine possible 
programs and guidelines (2024) P.3 Develop a financing program for low- income homeowner Accessory 
Dwelling Unit (ADU) construction - ADU financing pilot program established and funded for initial three-year 
period. P.4Promote the development of affordable family- sized housing units with 3+ bedrooms - The SLC RDA 
Board sets annual priorities for how funding should be used. In 2022 and 2023, priority has been given to family-
sized housing. This item would re- establish a priority for family-sized housing on an annual basis (ongoing) 
 
O 
O.1 Continue to partner with entities that apply for state and/or federal funds to preserve and create 
low to moderate income housing through annual funding opportunities, including opportunities for 
home repairs, accessibility improvements, and other programs. - Continue offering annual funding and 
partnership opportunities through the Housing Stability division (2024, ongoing) 
 
X 
X.1 Establish at least one housing and transit reinvestment zone (HTRZ) in the city - Work through 
details and application to establish an HTRZ (2024) 
 
T 
U.1 As part of $6 million in grant funding awarded in 2022, Switchpoint was awarded funds to develop 
a deeply affordable housing project for seniors - Report on number of individuals housed through this 
development (2024, ongoing) 
 
U 
U.1 Certify all Station Area Plans (SAPs) within the city, as required by State Code Section 
10-9a-403.1 - Planning staff work with Planning Commission, City Council, and the public to develop new 
SAPs for station areas where such SAPs are needed (2024) 
 
769

[[page 772 (fitz index)]]
V .1 Adopt and implement Affordable Housing Incentives Ordinance - Adopt Affordable Housing 
Incentives Ordinance (2024) 
W 
W.1 Expand workforce, artist, and essential worker housing, up to 125% AMI, so that these 
populations can live in the city in which they serve - Develop framework, partnerships, and 
potential funding sources (2024)W.2 Develop electric car-share and/or e-bike -share pilot program(s)  
co-located  with  affordable 
 housing 
-  
Formalize 
 partnerships,  
begin developing 
parameters for pilot program; re-apply for grant funding if not awarded (2024)
W.3Establish a Community/ Tenant Opportunity to Purchase policy at the City level, which 
could include technical assistance, funding opportunities, and other services and resources that 
would give existing tenants, the community, or the City/ Redevelopment Agency (RDA) the 
opportunity to purchase before the property goes to market - Convene a working group of 
internal staff, community partners, and residents to research best practices and develop a policy 
framework (2024) W.4 Host regular tenant education events -Based on schedule established by 
partners, host regular education events, potentially quarterly (2024,  ongoing)  W.5  Support    
community  and 
grassroots 
organizations 
that 
provide displacement assistance, tenant 
organizing, tenant mutual aid, legal services, and other resources/efforts that help tenants - Develop 
program to support grassroots organizations and develop parameters (2024) W.6 Develop a tenant 
advocate pilot program to help tenants understand their legal obligations and rights, inspect units, and 
connect with other resources -Convene a working group of internal staff, community partners, and 
residents to research best 
practices 
and  develop 
a program 
framework  (2024)  W.7 Provide 
funding  
for programs 
and/or  
initiatives   that 
build   wealth  and/or  provide  equity  
sharing opportunities for residents -Construction on pilot project begins (2024) W.8 Develop a 
Relocation Assistance Fund for Tenants to help those impacted by new development find and afford 
living situations that meet their needs - Select a community partner to administer the program  and  
launch  assistance  program  (2024)  W.9  Adopt  a Displaced  Tenants Preference Policy so that 
lower income tenants displaced due to new development or rising rents are given priority for moving 
into deed-restricted units created on the site or within the area from which they were displaced - 
Draft policy and conduct public review and policy adoption(2024) W.10 Adopt a Community 
Benefit Policy to prioritize the preservation or replacement of affordable housing as a condition 
of approval for changes to zoning and master plans - Work with public, Planning Commission, and 
City Council to receive input and adopt policy (2024) W.11 Improve and expand tenant resources, access 
to legal services, and landlord training to better meet the level of need and protect tenant rights - 
Make changes to the Landlord Tenant Initiative to better meet needs of tenants while continuing to 
serve and educate landlords (2024) W.12 Define indicators to track displacement and develop 
systems to track progress to better know where and how the City’s anti-displacement policies and 
actions are working -Develop manageable systems for collecting needed data and develop a public-
facing dashboard to report data at least annually (2024) W.13 Form a City Implementation 
Team to oversee and coordinate implementation of the actions in this plan and the priority 
actions in the Thriving in Place strategy,monitor progress, engage partners, and identify needed 
updates and next steps - Meet regularly to track progress, develop policies and programs, and 
monitor needs (2024, ongoing) 
770

[[page 773 (fitz index)]]
 
 
W.14 Convene a Regional Anti-Displacement Coalition to provide an ongoing platform for cross- 
agency and cross-sector discussion and collaboration on priority actions, tracking of progress, 
collective problem solving, and responding to emerging issues and challenges -Meet regularly to 
discuss priorities, strategies, and monitor progress (2024) W.15 Continue supporting and expand 
funding for homeless street outreach programs that connect individuals experiencing homelessness 
with critical resources and housing - Based on metrics, increase funding for street outreach programs 
(2024) W.16 Convene a physical accessibility working group of internal and external stakeholders - 
Research best practices and develop strategy for increasing units that meet universal design and 
visitability standards (2024) W.17 Create a public-facing rental database that includes information on 
accessibility, rent amounts, unit conditions, etc. - Design and launch database (2024) W.18 Continue 
to use federal funding for home repair and modification programs that increase accessibility and allow 
individuals to age in place - Continue to contract with partners through competitive awards 
(2024, ongoing) 
 
3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the 
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the 
strategy. 
C 
C.1 – Implementation Team has begun researching, drafting, and reviewing policy 
recommendations that would increase funding. Currently, there are two policy drafts in circulation.In 
FY25-26 Budget, an additional $5 million has been allocated for Deeply Affordable Housing.C.2 – 
No progress.C.3 – Building Preservation Incentives (Adaptive Reuse Incentives Ordinance) adopted 
in previous year. Currently submitted applications correlate to 301 units of housing. 
 
E 
E.1 – Updated ADU ordinance adopted under previous plan. In previous year, 27 new ADUs have 
been permitted.E.2 – No progress.E.3 – Progress has been slow to build out the library of pre- 
approved plans. Hoping that launch of CRA’s ADU financing program will bring more attention to the 
library.E.4 – CRA has selected a preferred partner in December 2024 to administer a $2.9M ADU 
Financing and Deed Restriction program. Contracting for this program is underway and the program 
is expected to launch before the end of 2025. E.5 – TOSV has 47/60 housing units on site with 12 
occupied and more residents in their Prep Academy. The remaining 13 units are in development. 
 
F 
F.1 – The City adopted a citywide mixed-use zoning consolidation on July 8, 2025. The 
consolidation will shift from 26 existing mixed-use zones to 6 and will go into effect in October. This 
will streamline regulations, clarify language, and integrate missing design standards. The 
consolidations feature adjustments to setbacks, building height, lot coverage, permitted land uses, 
and related provisions. 
 
G 
G.1 - The City adopted a citywide mixed-use zoning consolidation on July 8, 2025. The 
consolidation will shift from 26 existing mixed-use zones to 6 and will go into effect in October. This 
will streamline regulations, clarify language, and integrate missing design standards. The 
consolidations feature adjustments to building height, setbacks, lot coverage, permitted land uses, 
and related provisions. 
771

[[page 774 (fitz index)]]
 
 
H 
H.1 –Adopted under previous plan.H.1.2 – MU zoning consolidation contains information on 
parking minimums and it expands this beyond the downtown area impacted by previous 
ordinance. 
 
I 
This action involves an ordinance adopted under a previous plan. The City has a difficult time 
tracking the response to this land-use change because it made shared housing development as 
of right in certain areas of the City, meaning that properties do not have to enter into the 
planning process.The City has emphasized the creation of family-sized housing in the past year. 
 
J 
Affordable Housing Incentives, Building Preservation Incentives (Adaptive Reuse), and the 
Community Benefits Policy were all adopted under a prior reporting period. These are being 
monitored to determine their usage and impact. 
 
K 
K.1 - CRA released a Wealth Building Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) in fall 2024 and 
awarded in March 2025. Contracting is underway on two projects selected for funding awards. 
One project would be for new development that would create affordable ownership opportunities 
and one project would provide affordable financing options to help households purchase first 
time.A Tenant Opportunity to Purchase (TOP) program policy has been drafted and is under 
review. This policy would provide funding assistance and technical assistance to tenant 
organizations wishing to purchase their building. Purchased buildings could enter into the City’s 
existing Community Land Trust as a mechanism to lower purchase costs and maintain 
affordable ownership opportunities long term. A Naturally Occurring Affordable Housing (NOAH) 
program outline and accompanying policy has been submitted to City Council for consideration. 
The NOAH program would provide low interest loans and or grants to eligible landlords to help 
make needed upgrades or carry out needed improvements on their properties in exchange for 
maintaining the housing as affordable for a period of time. 
 
L 
The City continues to waive impact fees for developments that meet certain affordability 
requirements as set out in ordinance. During the reporting period, $426,000 in impact fees have 
been waived, which will facilitate the creation of 129 new affordable units. 
 
M 
M.1 – A research brief has been compiled regarding Home Equity Conversion Mortgages as a 
means for growing the City’s Community Land Trust (CLT) while mitigating against 
displacement. The brief is under internal review before policy guidelines would be drafted and 
then implemented.M.2 – The City continues to manage and expand its existing CLT. Legislative 
policies are before the council, awaiting adoption. It is anticipated that these policies will be 
adopted in summer/fall 2025.M.3 – No progress has been made on joint acquisition with 
community development partners. 
772

[[page 775 (fitz index)]]
 
 
 
P 
P.1 – In October 2024, the Salt Lake City Community Reinvestment Agency (CRA – formerly known as the 
RDA), released a NOFA for affordable housing gap financing. In March 2025, ~$5.3M was allocated to 4 
affordable housing developments. P.2 – Put funding toward equity programs and begin acquiring/ 
developing projects that include a tenant equity component. In October 2024, the CRA released a $3.2M 
Residential Wealth Building Pilot Program NOFA (funded from RDA housing set asides) for projects that 
funded affordable homeownership or tenant wealth building projects. Two projects were selected for funding 
—a down payment assistance program and a rent-to-own development. In June 2025, the CRA Board 
approved a term sheet associated with $2.1M ($700,000 from Inland Port Housing Funds) to fund two 
shared equity and workforce housing projects. P.3 – ADU financing pilot program established and funded 
for initial three-year period. CRA has selected a preferred partner in December 2024 to administer a $2.9M 
ADU Financing and Deed Restriction program. Contracting for this program is underway and the program is 
expected to launch before the end of 2025. P.4 –The SLC CRA Board sets annual priorities for how funding 
should be used. In 2022 and 2023, priority has been given to family-sized housing. This item would re- 
establish a priority for family-sized housing on an annual basis (ongoing). Funding allocations through the 
Housing Development Loan Program NOFA approved in March 2025 will include 79 units with 3+ 
bedrooms. 
 
O 
).1The City partnered with two community partners as well as utilized Federal funding to directly 
administer assistance through programs that rehabilitate and renovate housing to maintain its livability 
and affordability. External partners assisted 119 households. Internally administered programs 
assisted 48households. Additionally, the Mayor committed $5 million in her annual budget, which was 
adopted by Council in June 2025, for the creation of deeply affordable housing. This funding will be 
released later this year to community partners through a competitive application process. 
 
 
X 
X.1 - The 900 South HTRZ Interlocal between SLC and SLCRDA was adopted October 8,2024 at RDA 
Board meeting. The Salt Lake Central HTRZ was approved by the State HTRZ Committee on May 1, 
2025. 
 
T 
U.1 The Point at Fairpark was developed under a previous reporting period. It includes: 94 units and 
Supportive Services, including: Case management,community and behavioral health services, VA 
benefits coordination Area Median Income (AMI). The units are available to homeless seniors (62+) 
and veterans living on a fixed income less than 40% AMI. 
 
U 
U.1 - The Planning Division is currently drafting the 300 West Station Area Plan with the intent to 
submit to Planning Commission and City Council in fall2025 for adoption. 
773

[[page 776 (fitz index)]]
 
 
V 
Affordable Housing Incentives, Building Preservation Incentives (Adaptive Reuse), and the Community 
Benefits Policy were all adopted under a prior reporting period. These are being monitored to 
determine their usage. Additionally, the City Council initiated a petition to amend the R-1 (single 
family)zoning code in January 2025. This effort is currently underway. 
 
W W.1 Expand workforce, artist, and essential worker housing, up to 125% AMI, so that these populations can 
live in the city in which they serve - Develop framework, partnerships, and potential funding sources (2024) W.2 
Develop electric car-share and/or e-bike -share pilot program(s) co-located with affordable housing - Formalize 
partnerships, begin developing parameters for pilot program; re-apply for grant funding if not awarded (2024) 
W.3Establish a Community/ Tenant Opportunity to Purchase policy at the City level, which could include 
technical assistance, funding opportunities, and other services and resources that would give existing tenants, 
the community, or the City/ Redevelopment Agency (RDA) the opportunity to purchase before the property goes 
to market - Convene a working group of internal staff, community partners, and residents to research best 
practices and develop a policy framework (2024) W.4 Host regular tenant education events - Based on schedule 
established by partners, host regular education events, potentially quarterly (2024, ongoing) W.5 Support 
community and grassroots organizations that provide displacement assistance, tenant organizing, tenant mutual 
aid, legal services, and other resources/efforts that help tenants - Develop program to support grassroots 
organizations and develop parameters (2024) W.6 Develop a tenant advocate pilot program to help tenants 
understand their legal obligations and rights, inspect units, and connect with other resources - Convene a 
working group of internal staff, community partners, and residents to research best practices and develop a 
program framework (2024) W.7 Provide funding for programs and/or initiatives that build wealth and/or provide 
equity sharing opportunities for residents -Construction on pilot project begins (2024) W.8 Develop a Relocation 
Assistance Fund for Tenants to help those impacted by new development find and afford living situations that 
meet their needs - Select a community partner to administer the program and launch assistance program (2024) 
W.9 Adopt a Displaced Tenants Preference Policy so that lower income tenants displaced due to new 
development or rising rents are given priority for moving into deed-restricted units created on the site or within 
the area from which they were displaced - Draft policy and conduct public review and policy adoption(2024) 
W.10 Adopt a Community Benefit Policy to prioritize the preservation or replacement of affordable housing as a 
condition of approval for changes to zoning and master plans - Work with public, Planning Commission, and City 
Council to receive input and adopt policy (2024) W.11 Improve and expand tenant resources, access to legal 
services, and landlord training to better meet the level of need and protect tenant rights - Make changes to the 
Landlord Tenant Initiative to better meet needs of tenants while continuing to serve and educate landlords 
(2024) W.12 Define indicators to track displacement and develop systems to track progress to better know where 
and how the City’s anti-displacement policies and actions are working -Develop manageable systems for 
collecting needed data and develop a public-facing dashboard to report data at least annually (2024) W.13 Form 
a City Implementation Team to oversee and coordinate implementation of the actions in this plan and the priority 
actions in the Thriving in Place strategy,monitor progress, engage partners, and identify needed updates and 
next steps - Meet regularly to track progress, develop policies and programs, and monitor needs (2024, ongoing) 
W.14 Convene a Regional Anti-Displacement Coalition to provide an ongoing platform for cross-agency and 
cross-sector discussion and collaboration on priority actions, tracking of progress, collective problem solving, and 
responding to emerging issues and challenges -Meet regularly to discuss priorities, strategies, and monitor 
progress (2024) W.15 Continue supporting and expand funding for homeless street outreach programs that 
connect individuals experiencing homelessness with critical resources and housing -Based on metrics, increase 
funding for street outreach programs (2024) W.16 Convene a physical accessibility working group of internal and 
external stakeholders -Research best practices and develop strategy for increasing units that meet universal 
design and visitability standards (2024) W.17 Create a public-facing rental database that includes information on 
accessibility, rent amounts, unit conditions, etc. - Design and launch database (2024) W.18 Continue to use 
federal funding for home repair and modification programs that increase accessibility and allow individuals to age 
in place - Continue to contract with partners through competitive awards (2024, ongoing) 
774

[[page 777 (fitz index)]]
 
 
4. 
Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1, 
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or 
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy. 
C 
None. 
 
E 
None 
 
F 
F.1 – The City adopted a citywide mixed-use zoning consolidation on July 8, 2025. The 
consolidation will shift from 26 existing mixed-use zones to 6 and will go into effect in October. 
This will streamline regulations, clarify language, and integrate missing design standards. The 
consolidations feature adjustments to setbacks, building height, lot coverage, permitted land 
uses, and related provisions. 
 
G 
G.1 The MU zoning consolidations were adopted on July 8, 2025. They will not go into effect 
until October 2025. This will streamline regulations, clarify language, and integrate missing 
design standards. The consolidations will feature adjustments to setbacks, building height, lot 
coverage, permitted land uses, and related provisions. 
 
H 
H.1.2 - The MU zoning consolidations will streamline regulations, clarify language, and integrate 
missing design standards. The consolidations will feature adjustments to parking, setbacks, 
building height, lot coverage, permitted land uses, and related provisions. 
 
I 
No new land use regulations/decisions were made during this time. 
 
J 
None 
 
K 
None 
 
L 
None 
 
M 
None 
 
P 
None 
775

[[page 778 (fitz index)]]
 
 
 
O 
None 
 
X 
Creation of HTRZ. One HTRZ was established during the reporting period. This is not 
technically a land use decision, but it is a special zone that incentivizes specific outcomes. 
 
T 
None 
 
U 
None 
 
V 
None 
 
W 
W.1 – None WX.2 – NoneW.3 – NoneW.4 – NoneW.5 – NoneW.6 – NoneW.7 – NoneW.8 – 
None W.9 – None WX.10 – The Community Benefit Policy was adopted under a previous 
reporting period.W.11 – None.WX.12 – NoneW.13 – NoneW.14 – None.W.15 – None W.16 – 
None W.17 – None W.18 - None 
 
 
 
 
5. 
What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1, 
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does 
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number 
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers 
were experienced, write "None." 
C 
C.1 – Staff time has been the largest barrier to moving more quickly.C.2 – Staff time and 
existing funding. Without a dedicated funding stream, this is challenging to implement.C.3 – 
Land Use Ordinances take time to really have an impact. The fact that we have already 
received applications totaling 301 units suggests that the ordinance met a need. 
 
E 
E.1 – None.E.2 – Limitations on staff time and capacity.E.3 – Staff time to aggressively market 
this concept and work with architects to submit.E.4 – None.E.5 – Finding people who meet 
TOSV standards for housing has been challenging. They have more people going through their 
Prep Academy, but this takes time. The site has been challenging given its history as a landfill 
and construction and material costs have been challenging. Still, progress is being made. 
776

[[page 779 (fitz index)]]
 
 
F 
None 
 
G 
None 
 
H 
None 
 
I 
The only barriers are in the monitoring of how this ordinance is impacting development. Since this 
ordinance makesshared housing as of right in certain areas of the city, these no longer enter the 
City’s planning process, making them difficult to track. Additionally, isolating the impacts of this 
ordinance from all the other changes the City has made over the past few years (some of which are 
reported herein is difficult. In combination with other zoning changes and economic factors, Salt 
Lake City is seeing a significant amount of multifamily housing development. 
 
J 
None 
 
K 
None 
 
L 
None 
 
M 
M.1 – NoneM.2 – NoneM.3 – Limitations on staff time and capacity. 
 
P 
P.1 - NoneP.2 - NoneP.3 - NoneP.4 - None 
 
O 
Funding amounts were the only limitation on the number of households assisted. 
 
X 
None. 
 
T 
None 
 
U 
None 
 
V 
None 
777

[[page 780 (fitz index)]]
W 
W.1 – Staff capacity and funding continue to constrain progress toward this item.W.2 – The City has been 
unable to secure grant funding for this project. However, the e-bike voucher program, which is not a direct 
corollary, was successful. W.3 – No funding source has been identified to fund this program,which has 
slowed things down. W.4 – The staff person who oversaw these left and the position has yet to be filled. 
Marketing these has been a barrier and low attendance is leading staff to reconsider how to make these 
more impactful. W.5 – Staff time has been the only barrier. W.6 – Staff time has been the only barrier. W.7 –
None W.8 – No barriers in the launch of the program. The current program requirements have made this 
funding difficult to spend. Staff are looking into ways to open this funding up to make it more accessible while 
still meeting the intent. W.9 – Staff time was the only barrier. W.10 – None W.11 – This is a large program 
overhaul. Staff time has been the main constraint in moving this project forward. W.12 – Staff time was the 
only barrier. W.13 – None W.14 – Staff time. W.15 – The City has made strides in implementing its Public 
Safety Plan. W.16 – None W.17 – Building out a tool of this magnitude takes time and coordination. Staff are 
working through this to make sure that the tool is as helpful as it can be and that it meets the City’s needs 
and requirements. W.18 – None
6. 
Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy (e.g., 
units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during 
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
C
C.1 – No market response.C.2 – No market response.C.3 – Current applications total 301 units of 
housing.
E 
E.1 – 27 ADUs have been permitted this year.E.2 – No responseE.3 – No customers have taken 
advantage of the pre-approved library to date.E.4 – We have received lots of interest from 
homeowners and community members for the launch of this program.E.5 – No response
F 
The MU Consolidation is not in effect yet (effective date October 2025, but anecdotally, we’ve 
seen some applicants citing proposed MU zones. 
G 
Since adoption of the downtown building heights ordinance under the previous plan Astra Tower, 
the new tallest building in the State, has been completed.MU Consolidation is not in effect yet, but 
anecdotally, we’ve seen some applicants citing proposed MU zones in their applications. 
H 
1. In downtown Salt Lake City, 22% of residents do not own a car, suggesting that there is less 
demand for parking. Near the University of Utah campus, an old church was turned into housing 
that does not include parking. No-parking or low-parking developments are becoming more 
common in walkable and transit-rich areas.2. MU Consolidation is not in effect yet, but anecdotally, 
we’ve seen some applicants citing proposed MU zones in their applications.
I 
As market rents respond to the increasing supply of housing, the City is hopeful that such shared 
housing developments will move in a more affordable direction. 
778

[[page 781 (fitz index)]]
 
 
J 
The following numbers are for units tied to submitted and not-withdrawn applications. This 
includes applications under review and applications approved. These approvals do not mean 
that they have been built or even received permits to build yet.Affordable Housing Incentives: 
472 unitsBuilding Preservation Incentives: 301 units 
 
K 
In October 2024, the CRA released a $3.2M Residential Wealth Building Pilot Program NOFA 
(funded from RDA housing set asides for projects that funded affordable homeownership or 
tenant wealth building projects. Two projects were selected for funding—a down payment 
assistance program and a rent-to-own development. In June 2025, the CRA Board approved a 
term sheet associated with $2.1M ($700,000 from Inland Port Housing Funds to fund two 
shared equity and workforce housing projects. 
 
L 
The City has waived a total of $426,000 in impact fees that have supported 129 new units of 
affordable housing during the reporting period. 
 
M 
This is not a market response, but the City currently has 23 properties in its CLT. 
 
P 
P.1 – 482 of new affordable units were funded through the HDLP NOFA. Construction has yet 
to start but all units will be deed restricted once units are built. P.2 – We anticipate the funding 
will result in approximately 107 housing units.P.3 – We have received lots of interest from 
homeowners and community members for the launch of this program. We anticipate funding 
15-20 ADUs in this pilot program. P.4 – The HDLP NOFA allocated funds to 4 projects that will 
result in 482 units, 79 of which will be 3-bedroom units. 
 
O 
External partners assisted 119 households. Internally administered programs assisted 48 
households. 
 
X 
One project (Pickle and Hide) has received approval for a tax increment reimbursement 
agreement. Agreements have not been finalized yet. 
 
 
T 
The project has had no problem filling units. 
 
U 
The Station Area Plan has not been adopted yet, so there is no response. 
779

[[page 782 (fitz index)]]
V 
 
 
The following numbers are for units that have submitted an application and not withdrawn there application. This includes 
applications under review and applications approved. These approvals do not mean that they have been built or even 
received permits to build yet. Affordable Housing Incentives: 472 units Building Preservation Incentives: 301 units 
 
W 
W.1 – No response to this item.W.2 – 2,225 residents applied to the e-bike voucher 
program.W.3 – No response to this item.W.4 – No response to this item.W.5 – No response to this item.W.6 – No response 
to this item.W.7 – The pilot program is nearing completion, and it is anticipated that it will lease up quickly. There were two 
applicants for the CRA’s funding opportunity, and the ADU financing program has received interest from over 40 potential 
applicants before the program has even launched. W.8 – The 
$180,000 allocated to the RAFT program has been slow to move. There has been interest, but few people have qualified 
to-date, prompting staff to contemplate opening up the requirements to make the program more beneficial. W.9 – No 
response to this item. W.10 – During the reporting period, 14 applications have been submitted that would trigger the 
Community Benefit Policy. W.11 – In a survey sent around to nearly 3,000 landlords to help inform updates to the 
program, we received 201 valid responses, a response rate of 7.1%. 
This response rate is on par with expected email response rates. W.12 – No response to this item. W.13 – No response to this 
item. W.15 – No response to this item. W.14 – No update to report W.16 – No response to this item. W.17 – No response to 
this item. W.18 – No response to this item. 
 
7. 
Links to supporting documentation (Optional) 
C 
https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/saltlakecityut/latest/saltlakecity_ut/0-0-0-112778 
 
E 
E.1 – https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/saltlakecityut/latest/saltlakecity_ut/0-0-0-68737 E.3 – 
https://www.slc.gov/buildingservices/accessory-dwelling-unit-information/ E.5 - 
https://theothersidevillage.com/ 
 
F 
https://www.slcdocs.com/council/WebDoc/Land_Use/SLCMUZoningConsolidation/MUZoningDr 
aftOrdinance070825.pdf 
 
G 
https://www.slcdocs.com/council/WebDoc/Land_Use/SLCMUZoningConsolidation/MUZoningDr 
aftOrdinance070825.pdf 
 
H 
https://www.slcdocs.com/council/WebDoc/Land_Use/SLCMUZoningConsolidation/MUZoningDr 
aftOrdinance070825.pdf 
 
I 
https://webdme.slcgov.com/AdoptedLegislation/DocView.aspx?id=4788281&dbid=0&repo=SLC &cr=1 
 
J 
K 
L 
780

[[page 783 (fitz index)]]
M 
 
 
 
P 
O 
X 
T 
U 
V 
W 
https://www.slc.gov/publicsafetyplan/#CITY-ACTIONS 
 
 
 
Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional) 
C 
E 
F 
G 
H 
I 
J 
K 
L 
M 
P 
O 
781

[[page 784 (fitz index)]]
X 
 
 
 
T 
U 
V 
W 
 
 
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS 
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the 
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply) 
Housing supply data,Housing needs data,Other (Please specify) 
Additional funding 
 
 
Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality 
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A) 
One of the most common barriers to implementing our staff time has been funding-related. Staff 
capacity is related to funding, the ability to implement many of these strategies is related to 
funding, and the extent to which strategies can be impacted are related to funding. Additional 
funding for implementation of moderate income housing strategies would be tremendously 
helpful. 
 
If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is 
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following: 
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization 
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they 
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your 
community a written certification of compliance. 
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional 
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov. 
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10). 
 
Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report. 
782
