Riverton City, Utah
CITY COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes
February 4, 2020

Riverton City Hall
12830 South 1700 West
Riverton, Utah 84065
____________________________________________________________________________
Attendance:

Mayor Trent Staggs

Council Members: 						City Staff:
Council Member Tish Buroker			Konrad Hildebrandt, City Manager
Council Member Tawnee McCay			Joy Johnson, Deputy City Recorder
Council Member Troy McDougal			Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Council Member Sheldon Stewart		Trace Robinson, Public Works Director
Council Member Claude Wells			Kevin Hicks, Administrative Services Director
										Jason Lethbridge. Development Services Director
										Sheril Garn, Parks 7 Public Services Director
										Casey Saxton, Communications Director
										Chief Wade Watkins, UFA
										Chief Don Hutson, RPD
										Duane Green, Water Director

								
Mayor and Council Informal Meeting

WORK SESSION – 5:45 PM

Presentations

2020 Legislative Session Update – Rob Jolley

Rob Jolley discussed several bills and legislative issues that are being discussed during the 2020 Legislative session. He commented on this years’ session, which seems to be subdued due to more than usual budget restraints. He stated that transportation is the number one item that is being discussed. He feels that Riverton is well positioned for the continuing progress on the Mt View Corridor Project and the Bangerter Project. He also stated that the BL and CL road allocation funds should be higher this year.

Mr. Jolley discussed the secondary water meter item and the bill that Senator Andregg is sponsoring. It would compel cities to be metering secondary water. Unfortunately there is no funding for it this year and it might not pass. However, there is other legislation on this topic which is moving forward. He feels we will continue to see the secondary water issue for several years to come.  

b.   Discussion of Short Term Rental Ordinance
Mayor held a brief discussion on this item. He is asking Council to come forth tonight with some regulations that would be a bit stringent. He feels that this item has been discussed for months by the Planning Commission and the City Council and has had much coverage by the council.  
Council Members went through the 5 items listed on the ordinance and asked for comments. 

City Attorney Ryan Carter - Recalled the Council’s recommendations from the meeting on January 21. He is leaving the comments section open on the recommended motion so the council can make suggestions. Council members conducted a discussion on the proposed ordinance and asked for some changes which will be discussed further in the regular City Council Meeting. 

Strategic Planning

Mayor Staggs 

Discussion Items
Mayor Staggs conducted a brief discussion on the availability of Board Member positions and the possibility of updating the current list. He suggested that Council could make the pay scale more equitable for Council Members who are giving up hours beyond their elected official duties to attend and sit on various boards. This item will be discussed in the Regular City Council meeting. 

Council/Manager Reports
7.    Information Items Only - These are items that have previously been approved in the budget, etc. but brought back to the Council for information only.

	a.   Purchasing has issued contracts for projects that have been previously approved by     
            Council through the approval of the FY19/20 budget or budget adjustment.
	      No Action Necessary, Information Only.

 HYPERLINK "https://legistarweb-production.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/attachment/pdf/520194/20-1053-08-_Superior_Asphalt_Agreement.pdf" \h 20-1053-08- Superior Asphalt Agreement.pdf
 HYPERLINK "https://legistarweb-production.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/attachment/pdf/520195/CC19-371.pdf" \h CC19-371.pdf
 HYPERLINK "https://legistarweb-production.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/attachment/pdf/520196/20-1053-09-_Black_Forest_Paving_Agreement.pdf" \h 20-1053-09- Black Forest Paving Agreement.pdf
 HYPERLINK "https://legistarweb-production.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/attachment/pdf/520197/CC19-372.pdf" \h CC19-372.pdf
 HYPERLINK "https://legistarweb-production.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/attachment/pdf/520198/20-1053-10-_M_M_Asphalt_Agreement.pdf" \h 20-1053-10- M&M Asphalt Agreement.pdf
 HYPERLINK "https://legistarweb-production.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/attachment/pdf/520199/CC19-374.pdf" \h CC19-374.pdf

Konrad Hildebrandt, City Manager, Discussed the successful Hope Week. He also discussed the upcoming green events such as tire recycling and other projects in the “Keep Riverton Beautiful” campaign. 

8.   Adjournment

Council Member Stewart MOVED to adjourn. Council Member McCay SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously. The meeting adjourned at 6:50  PM.


9.   COUNCIL MEETING – 7:00 PM

10.	Call to Order

Mayor Staggs called the Riverton City Council Meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and conducted a roll call. Council Members Buroker, McCay, McDougal, Stewart, and Wells were present. 

11.	Prayer / Pledge of Allegiance

Council Member McCay, offered the invocation and UFA Chief Wade Watkins led the Pledge of Allegiance. 

12.	Public Comments

Mayor Staggs opened the Public Comment period and called for public comments. There being none, Mayor Staggs closed the public comment period. 

13.	Mayor/Council Reports

Mayor Staggs – Reported that there have been several changes and improvements made recently to Riverton City Hall and other improvements to the Sandra N. Lloyd Community Center.  He reminded the audience of the upcoming State of the City address he will be making from the Dome Meeting Hall on February 13.

Mayor Staggs discussed the Olympia Hills Development. He gave an update on several recent meetings and stated that the final vote would occur with Salt Lake County on February 11. He is concerned with the extreme ramifications of traffic on 12600 South and 13400 South with this proposed development. 

Mayor Staggs said that the RHS Hope Week, last week was well attended and he thanked the Staff and those who participated and planned all the great events last week.

Council Member McCay – Wanted to thank the Recreation Staff for their work on the Suicide awareness programs and the Hope Walk. 

Council Member Stewart – Thanked staff for all the work on plowing and keeping our roads clear during the recent storms. He discussed the UFSA meeting this week and the upcoming  vote regarding a 25 million dollar bond.

Council Member Buroker – Thanked the Mayor for the annual Strategic Initiative session that was held a week ago. She asked Mayor and staff to start looking at costs for relining our canals
She asked for a copy of the BYU Capstone project, with a possible report to the entire Council at a future meeting. She stated that Riverton had hosted the officials of UDOT last week, the expansion of the Bangerter project was discussed and she thanked the UDOT officials for their time.

Council Member Wells – Echoed the mayor’s comments on the Hope Walk. He thanked the residents who participated. 

Council Member McDougal  - Nothing tonight

14.	Recognitions / Proclamations / Presentations

Riverton Choice Awards for Excellence in Education – Rosamond Elementary School. 
Council Member Buroker presented The Riverton Choice Awards for Excellence in Education to Molly Hammond, Jobie Brady and Ms. Dorothy Dockstader.

Proclamation Recognizing Utah Women as the First to Vote
Mayor Staggs read a proclamation which recognized the contributions women in Utah have made and complimented the women of Riverton who have served in civic and public capacities. 

15.	Consent Agenda

Mayor Staggs presented the following Consent Agenda:

Minutes: CCM 01-07-2020 and  WS/CCM 01-21-20  
	
	b.  Resolution No. 20-12 Supporting the Western Growth Coalition to Advocate for  
		Transportation Improvements to Dedicate to the West Side Communities of Salt 
		Lake County, Utah.
	
Council Member Stewart MOVED that the City Council approve the Consent Agenda. Council Member Buroker SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

16.	Public Hearing(s) / Action Items 

Proposed Ordinance No. 20-02 – Amending the Land Use Code Sections 18.190 and 18.135, Addressing Seasonal and Temporary Commercial Uses

Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director, explained that Seasonal Temporary Commercial Uses such as shaved ice stands, Christmas tree lots, and fireworks stands were frequent among Utah communities. Riverton City’s ordinances have in the past only broadly addressed how those uses were reviewed and approved.  He said the proposed ordinance addition clarified where they may be located within Riverton City and codified a process and criteria for reviewing and approving temporary commercial uses, and included the information that must be provided by applicants. He said the proposed amended clarified that such uses would not be allowed on residential property. 

Mr. Lethbridge said the Planning Commission, following a public hearing, voted to recommend approval of the text amendment.  

Mayor Staggs reconvened a Public Hearing that was opened on January 21, 2020, and called for public comment; there being none, he closed the Public Hearing.

Council Member Buroker MOVED to Adopt Ordinance No. 20-02 – Amending the Land Use Code Sections 18.190 and 18.135, Addressing Seasonal and Temporary Commercial Uses.  Council Member Stewart SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously. 

Proposed Ordinance No. 20-05 – Amending Riverton City Code Title 18, Chapter 190 to allow for Short Term Residential Use Residential Zones of Riverton City

Ryan Carter, City Attorney, stated this is the third time this topic has been brought to the City Council. And this is the second Public Hearing for this item. He discussed the following topics related to short term rentals.
Proof of primary residency during application process. Proof of adequate parking. Issues of law enforcement with home owners in violation of new ordinance restrictions. Possible limit of 90 nights per year. Minimum of two hours between renters. Possible Fencing requirements for home owners. 

Mayor Staggs reconvened a Public Hearing that was opened on January 21, 2020, and called for public comment.

Public Hearing Comments;

Brandon Smith - Sent an email to the council members regarding short term rentals. He stated the benefits of short term rentals for the city. He stated that he has been in business for three years now. He mentioned the variety of tenants that he has had staying in his home over the past years. He stated the financial benefits of short term rentals. He feels the council has missed the mark on this ordinance. 

Dan Skyler – Lives near two neighbors that are currently hosting short term rentals.  He is a proponent of short term rentals and did not want to see major restrictions. He wants the Council to be fair and moderate and not restrictive.

Greg Law – Feels that the 1000 foot restriction is not enough because he lives in a cul-de-sac. He is in favor of the restrictions.  Complained about noisy motorcycles from VRBO guests that started up in his neighborhood, also at times has not been able to park his RV on his own property because the street is full of vehicles.
 
Kim Ritchie – Is a short term rental host. He has set up parking rules and noise rules. He has been proactive in getting the approval of his neighbors prior to his venturing into the hosting market.  

Ken Thompson – Build his home in 2008 and was able to survive the financial downturn of those years by turning to short term rentals. He stated his desire to be a good neighbor and says that he is the only house on the block where people are not allowed to park on the street. 
He also stated he has set high standards for his customers.

Barbara Christianson – Stated that she finished her basement a year ago specifically to become a short term rental host. She feels that the benefits for families that are searching for a short term housing need are pleased to come and stay in these nice rental units. They love this community. She feels it’s a benefit for the community to provide a nice home.  All of her guests rate her home with five stars.

Miranda Lambert – She provides short term options for out of towners and stated that most of her clients are Friday through Sunday guests. She is not in favor of the 90 day restriction. Most of the people she has worked with are very nice people. She also stated that her guests rate them very high.

Kelly – Short term renters will be using city resources. She is opposed to the 90 day restrictions. She just built a separate entrance into her home. She said Air B and B does almost nothing to protect the residents. She asked for minimum 2 night stay and a fee to be passed on to the guests that would cover city resources including police services.

Melanie Hansen – Sent a letter to Council members. She is a Short Term Rental Host. She has finished her basement to accommodate overnight guests. She is a proponent of the short term rental. She loves the good old fashioned hospitality. 

Tim Heaton – Has been in Riverton City for 25 years. He is a former Planning Commission member. He is an advocate for restrictions. He feels that the council should pass the ordinance tonight. 

Angela Law via Tish Buroker – Tish Buroker read a letter from resident Angela Law. She feels that the short term rentals as they stand today are violation of the ordinances of Riverton City. She cited traffic and parking concerns. She is a proponent of strict regulations for short term rentals and mentioned many problems that have occurred in her neighborhood as a result of un-desirable renters.

Mayor Staggs closed the Public Hearing.

Mayor Staggs stated that this issue has been worked on for many months. It has been noticed in multiple and a variety of social media and legal sites, the city was required to have one public hearing on this topic and we have had two and several public meetings.  He feels that short term rentals are definitely a business and need to be classified as a business, there should be restrictions. The accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance recently passed by the City Council, has addressed the long term rental situation.  His number one concern is that the short term rental should be owner occupied. 

Council Member Stewart said he would not hold hard on his previous recommendation of the fencing requirement for rental property backing up to open space. He likes the two night minimum idea.

Council Member Wells feels that there should be limitations.  There is not one ordinance that will fit every neighborhood, however there should be restrictions. The question should be can you operate a VRBO without disturbing your neighbor?  He feels it should be owner occupied and should have to provide off street parking. He is supports the 2 night minimum requirement previously discussed.

Troy Mc Dougal feels that most people have reasonable expectations regarding zoning when purchasing your home. Therefore, he wants to limit the number of rental nights. The more nights we make it possible for people to rent out their homes, the closer you will get to a formal B&B situation. Wants to have a longer time period in turn around for guests. Two hours is not enough time for turn around on guests. He thanked Ryan Carter for all his hard work for many months on this project.

Council Member McCay – Likes the minimum of 2 day. She feels that 91 days is too short of a time and recommends 185 days. Most hotels require a 4 hour turn around on guests. Requirement of having to respond within one hour is difficult. She also would require off street parking or parking directly in front of the rental property only. 
 
City Attorney Ryan Carter made a summary of the changes that were being discussed by the Council. 

Council Member Buroker summarized the changes and suggested changing the 185 night maximum to 130 nights.

2:29:48
Council Member Stewart MOVED to Adopt Ordinance No. 20-05 – Amending Riverton City Code Title 18, Chapter 190 to allow for Short Term Residential Use Residential Zones of Riverton City by adding the flowing provisions to the document provided by our City Attorney Ryan Carter,
Section 3B, be amended so that it shows 185 nights per year with a two night minimum stay requirement. 
	Section 5B, be amended to show a two hour response time verses the one hour. 
	Section 6A, be amended to a minimum of 4 hours vacancy between renters 
	Section 8, be amended to all rental related parking must be off street or contained within the footprint of the frontage of the home. With the same provision in Section 12C.
 
Council Member McCay SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; a discussion occurred,

Council Member Wells feels that off street parking only is best. 

Council Member McDougal is in favor of 150 nights only.

Council Member Buroker made a SUBSTITUTE motion to accept all changes with Council Member Stewart has requested except we restrict number of nights to 150.

Council Member McDougal SECONDED the motion.

Mayor Staggs called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-No, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-No, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed 3-2. 

Proposed Resolution No. 20-11 – Approving Amendments to the Budget for Fiscal Year 2019-2020

Kevin Hicks, Administrative Services Director, explained that Budgets are estimates; therefore, there are times it may be necessary to amend the City’s budget for unforeseen items. He then explained that the proposed budget amendment included the following changes to the budget:
Account for the 2013 bond refinancing that occurred in the fall
The bonds and related expenditures for the secondary water meter project
Increase budget to do both phase 1 and phase II of Old Liberty Way culinary and secondary water lines instead of just phase I which is already approved in the budget
Tracy Aviary - Riverton Nature Center project
Account for a few police start-up cost invoices that were received after the audit for FY 2019 was finalized
Cemetery veteran's monument pillars came in higher than originally anticipated

Mayor Staggs opened a Public Hearing and called for public comment; there being none, he closed the Public Hearing.

Council Member Stewart MOVED to Adopt Resolution No. 20-11 – Approving Amendments to the Budget for Fiscal Year 2019-2020.  Council Member McCay SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously. 

Discussion/Action Items

17.a Board Member Compensation Discussion.

Discussion regarding financial compensation for Council Members attending and participating on various Boards.

Mayor opened the discussion by stating the highest compensation on any board should be the cap. Take the number of meetings for that board and make an allocation based on those number.

2:52:09

Council Member Stewart made a suggestion for a compensation formula by taking the highest dollar amount of what is currently paid for a board member on the South Valley Sewer board and dividing that by the six member council, and adding a not to exceed a cap limit.

Council McCay said she proposed $30 per meeting you attend. Perhaps a set a dollar amount would be a better option.
Council Member Wells said he does not feel that participation on every board should be paid, there are some boards that should not require compensation.

Council Member Buroker stated what boards she is sitting on and the attendance policy; if you don’t go to the board meeting you don’t get paid.

Mayor Staggs asked staff come back on the 18th with more information and suggestions.
He then made a suggestion that the compensation Council members make as elected officials, could become inclusive of any participation that council member may have on outside boards and commissions. He stated, that as mayor, he would take into consideration the number of meetings each board has and try to distribute the board appointments amongst the council members as evenly as possible. 

2:59:35 
Council Member Stewart MOVED: Take highest paid board position among the six member council, and then divide that by the number of meetings that individual participates in, and then for each meeting that council member would participate in they would get that compensation for each meeting, with a max of that position. So whatever that is, so if that ever changes, it’s a max, no matter the number of boards, that’s the max you’ll ever get.  

Council Member Wells SECONDED the Motion  
Discussion on the motion.

3:02:58 
Council Member Stewart AMENDED THE MOTION; to calculate out the number of hours spent on the board, with a cap of the highest paid board. If you receive compensation for the board you sit on then that would come out of the net total. 

Council Member Wells SECONDED the amendment.  Roll Call vote. Stewart-Yes, Buroker- No, McCay – No, Wells- Yes, McDougal –Yes. Motion passed 3-2.

17.b Discussion of protest correspondence regarding Olympia Hill Development Project. Council Discussion Item.

Mayor Staggs discussed the letter which Herriman City sent supporting a protest with regards to the Olympia Hills project. Council Members asked the Mayor and staff to draft a similar letter of protest.   

18.	Upcoming Meetings

February 18, 2020 – 5:00 p.m. – Work Session & City Council Meeting
March 03, 2020 	– 8:30 a.m. – Strategic Planning Meeting
March 17, 2020 – 5:00 p.m. – Work Session & City Council Meeting
April 07, 2020 – 5:00 p.m. – Work Session & City Council Meeting 

19.	Closed Session 

Discussion of the purchase, exchange, sale, or lease of real property, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, and the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual

At 9:00 PM Council Member Stewart MOVED to meet in Closed Session to discuss the purchase, exchange, sale, or lease of real property, and the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual. Council Member McCaySECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

Minutes for portions of the Closed Session were taken and recorded and are now on file as a Protected Record.

I, Trent Staggs, Mayor of Riverton City, do hereby certify that a meeting of the City Council held on February 4, 2020 was closed to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, wherein no other items were discussed.

20.	Adjournment

Council Member McDougal MOVED to adjourn. Council Member McCay SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously. The meeting adjourned at 9:45 PM.

Approved: Pending Minutes










Page |  PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 10   Minutes – City Council Meeting                                                                                                                                                                       
February 4, 2020





