 
Riverton City, Utah 
CITY COUNCIL MEETING     
Minutes 
January 7, 2020 
 
Riverton City Hall 
12830 South 1700 West Riverton, Utah 84065 
____________________________________________________________________________ Attendance: 
 
Mayor Trent Staggs 
 
Council Members:   	 	 	 
 
City Staff: 
Council Member Tish Buroker 	 
 
Konrad Hildebrandt, City Manager 
Council Member Tawnee McCay  
 
Virginia Loader, City Recorder 
Council Member Troy McDougal  
 
Ryan Carter, City Attorney 
Council Member Sheldon Stewart 	 	Trace Robinson, Public Works Director 
Council Member Claude Wells 	 	 	Kevin Hicks, Administrative Services Director 
 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Jason Lethbridge. Development Services Director  	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Sheril Garn, Parks 7 Public Services Director  	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Casey Saxton, Communications Director  	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Chief Wade Watkins, UFA  	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Chief Don Hutson, RPD 
 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Duane Green, Water Director 
 
 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
	•	Open House for Newly Elected Council Members 
 
	•	COUNCIL MEETING – 7:00 PM 
 
3. Call to Order 
 
Mayor Staggs called the Riverton City Council Meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and conducted a roll call. Council Members Buroker, McCay, McDougal, Stewart, and Wells were present.  
 
4. Prayer / Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Konrad Hildebrandt, City Manager, offered the invocation and Chief Don Hutson led the Pledge of Allegiance.  
 
5. Oath of Office Ceremony 
 
Newly Elected Council Members Sheldon Stewart-District 1, Troy McDougal-District 2, and Claude Wells-District 5 were administered the Oath of Office by City Recorder Virginia Loader. The newly elected Council Members each spoke and expressed their appreciation for their support and for the opportunity to serve Riverton City. 
 
6. Public Comments 
 
 
Mayor Staggs opened the Public Comment period and called for public comments. There being none, Mayor Staggs closed the public comment period.  
 
7. Mayor/Council Reports 
 
Mayor Staggs welcomed the newly elected Council members and thanked the outgoing Council 
Members for their service. He commented on the opportunity as Mayor and Council to serve and thanked the residents for their support. He spoke of the renovation of the Council Chambers that is in progress. He spoke of other renovations within City Hall that were occurring. He spoke of the Strategic Plan that would be held on January 25, 2020. He said that forthcoming Work Sessions would be held identifying initiatives of the Strategic Plan.  
 
Council Member McCay welcomed the new Council Members. She then expressed appreciation to Staff for the Christmas activities that were held throughout the holidays. 
 
Council Member Stewart announced that former Battalion Chief Pilgrim had been promoted to Assistant Chief of UFA. 
 
Council Member Buroker welcomed the new Council Members and spoke of her experience as a new Council Member. 
 
City Manager Hildebrandt acknowledged the attendance of President Summerhays of the Chamber of Commerce and recognized the Chamber for their assistance to Riverton City in highlighting the local businesses and for encouraging economic development in the City.  He also spoke of Emergency Management within the City that was being initiated by                        Emergency Management Coordinator Scott Chapman.  
 
8. Presentations / Recognitions / Proclamations  
 
a. Riverton Choice Awards for Excellence in Education – Riverton Elementary School  
 
Council Member Wells presented the Riverton Choice Awards for Excellence in Education to the following Riverton Elementary School Students and Teacher: Ruth Richins–1st Grade Student, Landon Ogden–3rd Grade Student, and Mrs. Hannah Romero–5th Grade Teacher. 
 
b. Donation of $5,200 Received from Peterson’s Market for Victims of Crime and/or Needy Families 
 
Chief Hutson recognized Brandon Peterson, DanaMarie Christensen, and Ruby Bullock, employees of Peterson’s Fresh Market, for their generous contribution of $5,200 to the Riverton Police Department to be used as needed for crime victims and needy families within the community. They initiated a fund raiser at Peterson’s Market during the holidays wherein they received their funds from their customers, and they in turn donated that money to the Riverton Police Department. 
 
c. Volunteer Recognition-Scott Reid & Lisa Carter-Recipients of Governor’s Office Certificate of Award 
 
Sheril Garn, Parks & Public Services Director, presented volunteers Scott Reid and Lisa Carter Certificate of Awards that were selected as recipients from the Governor’s Office for their volunteer efforts in Riverton City. 
 
Mayor Staggs read information regarding each recipient that was submitted to the Governor’s Office by Ms. Garn as part of her nomination. Mayor Staggs and Council Members presented volunteers Scott Reid and Lisa Carter Certificate of Awards. 
 
Mayor Staggs moved to Item 11. B. 
 
b. Discussion of Refugee Resettlement Efforts 
 
Mayor Staggs introduced the Refugees in Utah program and encouraged volunteer participation in the program from those in attendance. 
 
Asha Parekh, Director of Refugee Services, explained that refugees are people who are forced to flee their homes because of persecution on account of their race, religion, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. She said that Refugees in Utah were founded in 2008 and their mission was to energize, educate and empower refugees to achieve their dreams through quality services offered in a collaborative resource-rich environment. She said their vision was to envision a strong integrated community engaged to empower refugees’ access to the family sustaining employment necessary to succeed in Utah for generations to come. She provided a handout, which was made part of the Agenda Packet. 
 
Ms. Parekh then addressed questions and comments from Council Members.  Council Member McCay recommended that a Resolution of Support be considered and forwarded to the Governor. Ms. Parekh then spoke of a Support Your Neighbor program initiated by Salt Lake City, which she said would appreciate volunteers. 
 
9. Consent Agenda 
 
Mayor Staggs presented the following Consent Agenda: 
 
	•	Minutes: WS/CCM 12-03-19 
	•	Bond Release(s):  
 	 	i. 	Riverton Peaks Revised (4093)-Warranty Release  	 	ii. Cedar Hollow Townhomes Phase A-Performance Release  	 	iii. Cedar Hollow Townhomes Phase B-Performance Release  	 	iv. Cedar Hollow Townhomes Phase C-Performance Release  	 	v. Riverton Medical Office (3445)-Warranty Release  	 	vi. Dansie Place-Warranty Release 
	•	Resolution No. 20-01 – Reappointment of City Council Member Buroker to serve on the South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement District Board of Trustees 
	•	Resolution No. 20-03 – Approval of Cooperative Maintenance Agreement between the  
Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) and the City of Riverton for the Transfer of 
Ownership and Maintenance Responsibilities from UDOT to the City of Riverton for the 
Stormwater Detention Pond Located at 12891 S and Redwood Road. Furthermore, UDOT will Retain Ownership and Maintenance Responsibilities for the Detention Pond located at 13571 S Redwood Road 
	•	Resolution No. 20-04 - Approving a Contract with Firestorm Pyrotechnics, Inc. for the July 4, 2020 Town Days Fireworks Show  
	•	Proposed Grant Applications  
	•	Resolution No. 20-05 - Authorizing the Mayor to execute a Revised and Restated 
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between Public Entities to Create and Govern the Unified Fire Authority       
 	 
Council Member McCay MOVED that the City Council approve the Consent Agenda. Council Member Buroker SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously. 
 
10. Public Hearing(s) / Action Items  
 
a. Ordinance No. 19-21 – Amending Previously Approved Ordinance No. 19-21, Accessory Dwelling Units, Minor Text Amendments and Establishment of an Application Fee  
 
Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director, explained that on December 3, 2019, the City Council approved the Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance allowing accessory dwelling units in single family zones in Riverton City. He said the ordinance included a deferred implementation date to allow staff time to create the necessary forms and review the approved process. In review, he said there were several minor text and formatting amendments that Staff felt would clarify the ordinance. In addition to formatting corrections, Staff included clarifications that determine compliance, applicable zoning, and standards for issuance of the permit. The original ordinance did not include an application fee. As the permit will require review and processing of submitted materials and site inspections separate from any building permit, Staff has recommended an application fee of $175.00, which is the same fee in place for home based business review and approval, and is calculated to cover costs of processing and inspection.  
He said the amended text also included language stipulating that any permitting for an Accessory Dwelling Unit may be subject to revocation if the violations of City ordinances occur. 
 
Jason Lethbridge addressed questions and comments from Council Members. 
 
Mayor Staggs opened a Public Hearing and called for public comment; there being none, he closed the Public Hearing. 
 
Council Member Stewart MOVED to Amend Ordinance No. 19-21 – With Minor Amendments to the Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance and Establishing an Application Fee of $175.00.  Council Member Buroker SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and WellsYes. The motion passed unanimously.  
 
 	b. Resolution No. 20-02 – Approving Amendments to the 2019-2020 Fiscal Year Budget  
 
Kevin Hicks, Administrative Services Director, explained that budgets were estimates and it was necessary to amend the City’s budget for the following unforeseen items:  
 
	•	Additional funds to send out the 2020 calendar to all residential addresses 
	•	Jordan River Trail improvement project including the resurfacing of the trail, trees, other 
small improvements, a new mowing machine and hiring 4 seasonal workers from the 
Utah States AmeriCorps Program o This project is fully funded with a grant from the State of Utah Department of Natural Resources 
 
Mayor Staggs opened a Public Hearing and called for public comment; there being none, he closed the Public Hearing. 
 
Council Member Buroker MOVED to approve Resolution No. 20-02 - Amending the Riverton City Budget for Fiscal Year 2019-2020. Council Member Stewart SECONDED the motion. 
Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.  
 
11. Discussion / Action Items  
 
a. Discussion of Short Term Rentals  
 
Ryan Carter, City Attorney, explained that there were no codes for compliance or restrictions regarding short term rentals. Mr. Carter presented a draft ordinance and said that the Planning Commission had reviewed the draft in August and they agreed with it. He said that there would be an occupancy restriction not to exceed 29 days.   
 
Mr. Carter explained that information was being presented to assist the new council members in becoming familiar with Short Term Rentals and whether short term rentals should be allowed in Riverton City. 
 
Mr. Carter explained that the purpose of Short Term Rentals was to provide an opportunity for home occupations as an accessory use, when they are compatible with the neighborhoods in which they are located. Also to safeguard peace, quiet, and domestic tranquility within all residential neighborhoods. Protect residents from the adverse effects of business uses being conducted in residential areas from noise nuisance, traffic fire hazard and other possible business uses that are in excess of that customarily associated with the neighborhood.  
 
Council Members reviewed a draft of Ordinance 18-190-051. Short Term Rentals and made comments and/or suggestions. Council Members were instructed to email any changes or suggestions to the proposed ordinance to Mr. Carter prior to the next discussion. 
 
Mr. Carter said the item would be noticed for a public hearing and placed on the Council Agenda for January 21, 2020.  
 
b. Discussion of Refugee Resettlement Efforts – Discussion held prior to Consent Agenda. 
 
12. Upcoming Meetings 
 
	•	January 21, 2020 – 5:00 p.m. – Work Session & City Council Meeting 
	•	January 25, 2020 – 8:30 a.m. – Strategic Planning Meeting 
	•	February 04, 2020 – 5:00 p.m. – Work Session & City Council Meeting 
	•	February 18, 2020 – 5:00 p.m. – Work Session & City Council Meeting  
 
13. Closed Session  
 
a. Discussion of the purchase, exchange, sale, or lease of real property, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, and the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual 
 
At 8:25 PM Council Member Stewart MOVED to meet in Closed Session to discuss the purchase, exchange, sale, or lease of real property, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, and the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual. Council Member McCay SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and WellsYes. The motion passed unanimously. 
 
Minutes for portions of the Closed Session were taken and recorded and are now on file as a Protected Record. 
 
I, Trent Staggs, Mayor of Riverton City, do hereby certify that a meeting of the City Council held on January 7, 2020 was closed to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, wherein no other items were discussed. 
 
14. Adjournment 
 
Council Member McDougal MOVED to adjourn. Council Member Wells SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougalYes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously. The meeting adjourned at 9:50 PM. 
 
Approved: Pending Minutes 
