 
Riverton City, Utah 
CITY COUNCIL MEETING 
Minutes 
January 21, 2020 
 
Riverton City Hall 
12830 South 1700 West Riverton, Utah 84065 
____________________________________________________________________________ Attendance: 
 
Mayor Trent Staggs 
 
Council Members:   	 	 	 
 
City Staff: 
Council Member Tish Buroker 	 
 
Konrad Hildebrandt, City Manager 
Council Member Tawnee McCay  
 
Virginia Loader, City Recorder 
Council Member Troy McDougal  
 
Ryan Carter, City Attorney 
Council Member Sheldon Stewart 	 	Trace Robinson, Public Works Director 
Council Member Claude Wells 	 	 	Kevin Hicks, Administrative Services Director 
 	 	 	 	 	 	Jason Lethbridge. Development Services Director  	 	 	 	 	 	Sheril Garn, Parks 7 Public Services Director  	 	 	 	 	 	Casey Saxton, Communications Director  	 	 	 	 	 	 	Chief Wade Watkins, UFA  	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Chief Don Hutson, RPD 
 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
	•	Mayor and Council Informal Meeting 
 
	•	WORK SESSION – 5:45 PM 
 
	•	Presentations 
 
4. Strategic Planning 
 
Mayor Staggs explained that as part of upcoming Work Sessions, the Elected Official’s Strategic Plan priorities and initiatives would be discussed and followed up on. 
 
5. Discussion Items 
 
a. RCC 8.40.040 Substantive provisions. (2) Specific Nose Restrictions (h) Motor  Vehicles 
 
Mayor Staggs explained that he received an email from a resident who complained about a diesel truck across the street from his house idling for 15 to 30 minutes almost every day before moving off the driveway, which he said created a lot of pollution on their street. He said he had seen this happening all over Riverton each morning. He asked if the City could put a stop to such dangerous health hazards and volunteered to serve on a committee that may be interested in such a campaign. He also submitted a sample letter for staff to consider that he suggested could be sent to the residents.  
 
The Council discussed the issue and agreed to support an education campaign to educate the residents in regards to idling. Council Member Buroker suggested that the City also conduct a “Keep Riverton Safe” campaign in addition to the “Keep Riverton Beautiful” campaign. She suggested that “No Idling” be a part of that campaign. 
 
b.  City Trash and Recycling Services 
 
Ryan Carter, City Attorney, explained that on December 3, 2019, the City received an email from the property manager for the Rose Creek Town Homes community in Riverton. He explained that these town homes previously had private trash service, but would like to have the 96 owners/residents subscribe to the city provided trash and recycling services effective 01-012020. He said they called and spoke to someone at the city who stated that the 96 Riverton City residents were not allowed to subscribe to city trash and recycling services. He said they assumed that the person they spoke with was mistaken, as the 96 homes were tax paying, utility using, revenue generating citizens of Riverton, just the same as the 166 single family homes that surround them. He would like to be advised as to what they need to do to get these homes moved over to the city trash and recycling services. He said that Staff had responded and explained that they had held several meetings discussing the snowball effect that this may have with a change in policy. Staff said that there were liability issues of providing public services on private streets and the risks involved. On December 23 staff advised Mr. Sucher that they were unable to approve the request as City ordinance prohibits city trash collection on private streets.  
 
Mr. Carter further explained that the City has not previously provided trash collection on private streets because the weight of the garbage trucks was too heavy for privately owned streets, which are not typically built for heavy loads.  
 
Discussion was held to determine what course of action was recommended and the Council Members agreed to not change the policy and to not provide trash and recycling services to the Rose Creek Town Homes. 
 
Brief discussion was held regarding recycling and the varying information being received from different vendors. Staff was instructed to invite Waste Management to a future City Council Meeting for an update. Council Member Buroker also requested that Momentum Glass Recycling be invited to a future Council Meeting to brief the Council on curbside glass recycling pickup. 
 
Emergency Operations 
 
Scott Chatwin, Emergency Operations Manager, reviewed on-line training opportunities for Council Members and Staff and he encouraged all to complete by February 14th. He spoke of addition training opportunities and the upcoming “Utah Shake Out” emergency drill. He presented and reviewed information in regards to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) National Preparedness Goals in order to ensure that the administrative, finance and logistics systems are in place to support core capabilities. 
 
6. Manager Reports 
 
Konrad Hildebrandt, City Manager, spoke of upcoming events promoted by the Parks & Recreation Department, “Live in Real Life” and the “Hope Squad Walk”. Council Member Stewart recommended that the three High Schools educating Riverton students participate in the Hope Squad Walk in the future. 
 
Mr. Hildebrandt then spoke of the “Better Ways of Doing Things (BWDT)” that was recently submitted to the City Council. He commended staff for their implementation of the BWDT over the past year. 
 
Council Member McDougal spoke of a cement sign on 2700 West next to Riverton High 
School that a student ran into.  
 
Council Member Wells asked about the status of Riverton City’s Master Plan. He then spoke of the lack of a fence along the canal south of 12600 South and thanked Development Services Director Jason Lethbridge for his explanation.  
 
Council Member McCay also asked about the Master Plan, and a fee study update. She then asked for clarification regarding the secondary water metering that was listed later on the agenda. 
 
City Attorney Ryan Carter reviewed legislation regarding secondary water metering requirements and explained that in June of 2019, the State of Utah, Department of Natural Resources awarded a loan to Riverton City in the amount of $11,985,000 to install secondary water meters on all customer connections. He said the interest payable was set at the annual rate of 1%.  As a condition of receiving the loan, he said that Riverton City must secure the loan by issuing bonds secured by revenues collected as water rate fees. He said the Department of Natural Resources also expects Riverton City to provide $2,115,000.00 to the Project as well as additional conditions of receiving the loan.   
  
Mr. Carter further explained that on October 15, 2019, the City Council adopted a resolution authorizing the City to proceed with the process to issue water revenue bonds, which in turn guarantees the repayment of the loan. He explained that prior to closing on a transaction to issue revenue bonds the Act requires: 1) Riverton City give notice of its intent to issue such bonds; 2) hold a public hearing to receive input from the public. The public hearing must receive information, if any, regarding the issuance of the bonds and “what the potential economic impact that the improvement, facility or property for which the bonds pay all or part of the cost will have on the private sector.” Utah Code Ann. § 11-14-318 (1) (b) (ii).  He further explained that the City Council recently authorized the City to undertake steps to receive low interest lending from the State of Utah, Department of Water Resources to install secondary water meters.  As a part of the State's approval process and under State regulatory Rule R653-2-4., the City is required to adopt an ordinance to restrict the use of secondary water between the hours of 10:00 am and 6:00 pm., in order to receive the loan from the State of Utah.   
 
Lengthy discussion occurred regarding the requirements associated with the bonds and Council Member McCay requested an analysis of extending the $18 million bond to five or seven years and determine what the savings would be and she suggested the City install the meters over time as the City could afford it.  
 
Council Member Stewart spoke of a recent UFA Interlocal Agreement and he requested a legislative report from Lobbyist Rob Jolley. 
 
7. Adjournment 
 
Council Member Buroker MOVED to adjourn. Council Member McCay SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougalYes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously. The meeting adjourned at 6:55 PM. 
 
8. COUNCIL MEETING – 7:00 PM 
 
9. Call to Order 
 
Mayor Staggs called the Riverton City Council Meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and conducted a roll call. Council Members Buroker, McCay, McDougal, Stewart, and Wells were present.  
 
10. Prayer / Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Pastor Danny Brooks, Gospel Hope Church, offered the invocation and UFA Battalion Chief Greg Reynolds led the Pledge of Allegiance.  
 
11. Public Comments 
 
Mayor Staggs opened the Public Comment period and called for public comments; there being none, Mayor Staggs closed the public comment period.  
 
12. Mayor/Council Reports 
 
Mayor Staggs spoke of the improvements that had been made and were being made to City Hall. He spoke of the upcoming Strategic Planning Session beginning 8:00 AM on January 25th. He said the 2020 Legislative Session begins in February and there were many issues of concern for that session. 
 
Council Member McDougal – No Report 
 
Council Member Wells reported on vandalism that occurred to a white vinyl fence at 2700 West and 13000 South; he encouraged all to watch for vandalism and to report it. He then reported that he recently had the opportunity to ride along on a snow plow and he said it was amazing and it brought awareness to how many people do not pay attention to the winter parking ordinance. He specifically mentioned basketball standards and the difficulty of snow plowing a cul-de-sac when cars were parked inside there. He urged constant education to the public regarding the winter parking ordinance. He spoke of new businesses locating in Riverton City encouraged continued promotion of new businesses.  
 
Council Member McCay reported on graffiti in her area and said she reported it on the City’s app and it was painted over immediately. She reported that the Mountain View Village parking lot was packed and it was nice to have economic development in the City. 
 
Council Member Stewart reported on a recent UFA Meeting and, as a result, a Facility Use Policy for UFA Buildings would be coming within the next 45 days. He then spoke of the following Legislative Bills: HB 66 re. Delegation of authority, HB 101re. Strike the Driver, HB 104 re. 911 Responsibilities, as well as some unnumbered bills of interest to the City. 
 
Council Member Buroker – No Report 
13. Presentations / Recognitions / Proclamations  
 
a. Riverton School Choice Week 
 
Mayor Staggs read a proclamation that recognized that all children in Riverton should have access to the highest-quality education possible; and that recognized the important role that an effective education plays in preparing all students to be successful adults. He said that quality education was also critically important to the economic vitality of Riverton, and Riverton was home to a multitude of excellent education options from which parents could choose for their children. He said that educational variety not only helps to diversify our economy, but also enhances the vibrancy of our community.    
 
 	Jordan School District Report  
 
Darrell Robinson addressed the Council and introduced the newly hired Jordan School District superintendent Dr. Andy Godfey. He spoke of Dr. Godfrey’s accomplishments and background. 
 
Dr. Andy Godfrey then addressed the Council and spoke of his goals and plans for the Jordan School District.  
 
Matt Young then spoke and presented information regarding the Jordan School District’s ongoing projected building plan, which included projects in progress and Jordan School District’s property options. He said the current schools in operation were seven high schools, 11 middle schools, 38 elementary schools, three special schools, and two academies for technology and careers with a current enrollment of 56, 500. He spoke of the 2016 bond projects in progress and said they were on time and under budget. 
 
14. Election of 2020 Mayor Pro Tempore 
 
Council Member Wells nominated Council Member Stewart as the 2020 Mayor Pro Tempore and Council Member McCay nominated Council Member Buroker. Mayor Staggs closed the nominations. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Stewart, McCay-Buroker, McDougal-Stewart, Stewart-Stewart, and Wells-Stewart. Council Member Stewart was elected as the 2020 Mayor Pro Tempore. 
 
15. Consent Agenda 
 
Mayor Staggs presented the following Consent Agenda: 
 
	•	Resolution No. 20-06 - Authorizing the City to enter into an Interlocal Cooperation  Agreement with Salt Lake County for the Installation of a Traffic Signal to be Located at the Intersection of 13200 South (Majestic Rise Parkway) and 4210 West (Old Liberty Way). 
	•	Resolution No. 20-09 - Approving the Sale of Two Parcels of Real Property, Identified as  
Parcel. Nos 27- 32-400-053 and 27-32-400-058, to Wasatch Land and Improvement  
	•	Resolution No. 20-10 - Appointing Volunteer Members to the Riverton Emergency  
Preparedness Committee 
	•	Resolution No. 20-08 - Supporting Governor Herbert's response to Executive Order   	 	No. 13888, issued by the President of the United States. 
 	 
Council Member McCay MOVED that the City Council approve the Consent Agenda. Council Member Stewart SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously. 
 
10. Public Hearing(s) / Action Items  
 
a. Ordinance No. 20-01 - Amending Section 18.150.110(1), Allowed Sign Types for Nonresidential Signs in Residential Zones, and 18.150.110(2) Sign Standards, Amendment Proposed by Riverton City 
 
Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director, explained that a representative of the Saint Andrews Catholic Church on 11800 South and 3600 West approached staff with questions regarding available signage for that location, specifically temporary banners and an LED monument sign.  He explained that the RR-22 Zone did not allow temporary promotional signs, and while it does allow monuments signs, LED, or electronic message boards were not allowed.  In discussing the issue, he said that staff felt there was sufficient merit to the question of allowing the signs for non-residential uses to present the issue to the City Council.  
 
Mr. Lethbridge said that the Planning Commission, following a public hearing, voted to recommend approval of the proposed ordinance amendment.  
 
Mayor Staggs opened a Public Hearing and called for public comment; there being none, he closed the Public Hearing. 
 
Council Member Buroker MOVED the City Council Adopt Ordinance No. 20-01 - Amending Section 18.150.110 (1) and 18.150.110(2) allowing temporary promotional signs and LED signs residential zones for non-residential uses and amending existing standards for size, as described in Exhibit “A”. Council Member McCay SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, StewartYes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.  
 
 	b. Ordinance No. 20-02 - Amending the Land Use Code Sections 18.190 and 18.135, addressing Seasonal and Temporary Commercial Uses. 
 
Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director, explained that Seasonal Temporary Commercial Uses such as shaved ice stands, Christmas tree lots, and fireworks stands were frequent among Utah communities. Riverton City’s ordinances have in the past only broadly addressed how those uses were reviewed and approved.  He said the proposed ordinance addition clarified where they may be located within Riverton City and codified a process and criteria for reviewing and approving temporary commercial uses, and included the information that must be provided by applicants. He said the proposed amended clarified that such uses would not be allowed on residential property.  
 
Mr. Lethbridge said the Planning Commission, following a public hearing, voted to recommend approval of the text amendment.   
  
Mr. Lethbridge addressed comments and/or questions from Council Members. 
 
Mayor Staggs opened a Public Hearing and called for public comment; there being none, he closed the Public Hearing. 
 
Following discussion and a desire for further amendments to the proposed ordinance, Council Member Buroker MOVED to TABLE to a date certain to the next City Council Meeting and resume the public hearing at that time. Council Member McCay SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.  
 
c.  Ordinance 20-03 - Rezoning Property Located at 2435 West 12600 South from RR22 (Residential Half Acre Lots) to C-PO (Commercial Professional Office). Alicia Davis, Brandon Johnson and Ryan Brinton Representing Apex Insurance 
 
Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director, explained that the applicants representing Apex Insurance were seeking a rezone with hopes of converting an existing home into an insurance office.  
  
Mr. Lethbridge explained that the subject parcel was located on the south side of 12600 South Street at 2435 West. He said the property was near mid-block, about half-way between the 2360 West Street and 2565 West Street.  He said the parcel was narrow and deep with an unconventional shape and was approximately 0.49 acres, with just over 69-ft of frontage. He said the applicants have indicated their client also has an option to buy the east adjoining parcel, which may come for a rezone in the future.   
  
Mr. Lethbridge said that the property was currently zoned RR-22 (Single Family Residential, ½ acre lots with animal rights) as were the adjoining properties on the east and west. He said the properties to the south were zoned R-4 (Single Family Residential, 10,000 sf lots); properties to the north, across 12600 South were zoned C-G (Commercial Gateway).  Mr. Lethbridge said there was C-G zoning on the south side of 12600, just two properties to the west of “Twisted Lox”.   
 
Mr. Lethbridge said that on December 12, 2019, following a public hearing, the Planning Commission voted to recommend approval of the proposed rezone application. 
  
Mr. Lethbridge addressed comments and/or questions from Council Members. 
 
Mayor Staggs opened a Public Hearing and called for public comment.  
 
Applicant Alicia Davis, Representing Apex Insurance, spoke in favor of the proposed rezone and encouraged approval from the City Council. 
 
Council Member Wells said that he received correspondence from Darlene Winters and she had no opposition to the proposed rezone. 
 
There being no further comments, Mayor Staggs closed the Public Hearing. 
 
Council Member McCay MOVED the City Council Adopt Ordinance No. 20-03 - Rezoning Property Located at 2435 West 12600 South from RR-22 (Residential Half Acre Lots) to CPO (Commercial Professional Office). Council Member Stewart SECONDED the motion. 
Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.  
 
 	d. Ordinance No. 20-05 - Amending Title 18, Chapter 190 of Riverton City Code to   	 	allow for short term rental use in residential zones, with regulations. 
 
Ryan Carter, City Attorney, explained that the Riverton City Code was presently silent regarding the use of residential property for short term rental purposes, as would be managed under a service such as VRBO or AirBnB. After receiving public input from the Riverton Planning Commission, he said that City staff was advancing an ordinance that regulates short term rental uses. He said this item was also being presented following an informal discussion with the Riverton City Council on January 7, 2020, and that the comments made by the Council had been incorporated into the most recent draft of the ordinance. He said that if the ordinance was approved, staff would bring back a final draft of the ordinance in the next regularly scheduled meeting to ratify the same. 
 
Mayor Staggs opened a Public Hearing and called for public comment. 
 
Ryan Brinton spoke of his experience with short term rentals and warned the Council of the things that could occur with short term rentals. 
 
Mayor Staggs suspended the Public Hearing and discussion ensued. Council Members were instructed to send their suggestions/recommendations to Mr. Carter prior to the next City Council Meeting. 
 
Council Member Stewart MOVED to defer Resolution No. 20-05 and the public hearing to the next City Council Meeting on February 4th. Council Member McCay SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougalYes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.  
 
17. Discussion / Action Items  
 
a. Resolution No. 20-07 - Authorizing a Quit Claim Deed to be conveyed to UDOT for  a portion of 3900 West, between approximately 12385 South and 11280 South, Riverton, Utah.   
 
Ryan Carter, City Attorney, explained that UDOT was commencing with an improvement project for the interchange of 12600 South and Bangerter Highway, Riverton, Utah.  As a part of the interchange improvement project, he said that UDOT would construct a new entrance ramp for northbound traffic on the east side of Bangerter Highway, which would widen the right of way for Bangerter Highway. The wider highway alignment to the east would in turn require the installation of a new sound barrier wall, also further to the east.  The sound barrier wall would need to be installed in the westernmost portion of 3800 West.   
  
Mr. Carter said the City Public Works Director was working with UDOT to realign 3800 West to satisfy any traffic concerns. The roadway, for its part, processes minimal overall traffic. Only three driveways front the portion of 3800 West in the area, but the location of the driveways relative to the alignment of the sound barrier wall should create little to no interference with the ingress and egress of vehicles to the properties.   
Council Member McCay MOVED to adopt Resolution No. 20-07 - Authorizing a Quit Claim Deed to be conveyed to UDOT for a portion of 3900 West, between approximately 12385 South and 11280 South, Riverton, Utah. Council Member Stewart SECONDED the motion. 
Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote  and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.  
 
a. Ordinance No. 20-04- Amending Title 13 of the Riverton City Code Prohibiting   	Hours of Operating Secondary Water Irrigation Systems 
 
Ryan Carter, City Attorney, explained that the City Council recently authorized the City to undertake steps to receive low interest lending from the State of Utah, Department of Water Resources to install secondary water meters.  As a part of the State's approval process, it informed the City that under State Regulatory Rule R653-2-4., the City was required to adopt an ordinance to restrict the use of secondary water between the hours of 10:00 am and 6:00 pm., in order to receive the loan from the State of Utah.   
 
The issue of bonding requirements for secondary water metering was discussed at length in the previously held Work Session and again at this time on the agenda. Mayor Staggs explained that the decision to move forward with secondary water metering had already been made by a previous Council. He said that staff had reviewed it from a financial perspective and what the previous governing body had attempted to do was to get ahead of SB 52 and its regulations, and to be the first city to avail themselves of the low interest loan money before anyone else. He said that would then allow the water department and utility department to send out comparisons between what the residents were using vs. what they should be using. A system was built that should be at full build out at 19-20 million gallons a day delivery, and there are 30-36 million gallons a day delivery in the summer time. He said there was a huge problem that needed to be addressed, either the City move forward and implement metering  and educate the residents and curb their behavior regarding water usage or the City would need to purchase an equivalent amount of water shares, upsize the system or more. The decision was then made by the Council to move forward on the two sets of bonds. 
 
Further discussion ensued and it was confirmed that the water metering project could be completed within three years’ time. 
 
Council Member Buroker MOVED the Riverton City Council adopt Ordinance No. 20-04 - Amending Title 13, Chapter 10 of Riverton City Code to restrict the use of secondary water systems between the hours of 10:00 am and 6:00 pm with the approval of the City Council under subsection (1). Council Member Stewart SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-No, StewartYes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed 4 to 1.  
 
12. Upcoming Meetings 
 
	•	January 25, 2020 – 8:30 a.m. – Strategic Planning Meeting 
	•	February 04, 2020 – 5:00 p.m. – Work Session & City Council Meeting 
	•	February 18, 2020 – 5:00 p.m. – Work Session & City Council Meeting  
 
 
 
14. Adjournment 
 
Council Member Stewart MOVED to adjourn. Council Member McCay SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion; there being none, he called for a roll call vote and the vote was as follows: Council Members Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Stewart-Yes, and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously. The meeting adjourned at 9:18 PM. 
 
Approved: Pending Minutes 
