Approved: PC 7.9.26


                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                  JUNE 25, 2026

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 PM in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton, Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Vice-Chair Monique Beck                          Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Dir.
Crystal Keele                                    Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Gary Cannon                                      Lisa Halversen, Planner
Evan Matheson
Joe Marzo

1.       CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Vice-Chair Monique Beck called the Planning Commission Meeting to order at
approximately 6:30 p.m. Tanner Webster led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.       PUBLIC HEARINGS

         A.    "RIVERWOOD CROSSING," PLZ-26-2035, AN APPLICATION FOR A
               CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT FOR A PRIVATE LANE TO SERVE UP TO
               EIGHT RESIDENTIAL LOTS AT APPROXIMATELY 13191 SOUTH
               REDWOOD RAOD. APPLICANT – TAYLOR MOORE.

Planner Lisa Halversen presented the Staff Report. The 1.45-acre subject property is
located at the intersection of 13200 South and Redwood Road. The Planning
Commission previously recommended approval of a request to rezone the four parcels
on the subject property to RM-6, which was approved by the City Council.

The current application was for a private lane for the proposed eight-lot subdivision. The
private lane would be in the middle of the subdivision, with a fire turnaround located
between Lots 2 and 3. The development would be accessed from 13200 South and
meets all requirements for the RM-6 zoning designation. Adjoining properties were zoned
RR-22 and Neighborhood Commercial. The General Plan designation was Medium-High
Density Residential, which allows for five to eight units per acre.

Riverton City Code prefers public streets. However, options are provided for private lanes
if the following requirements are met:

     •   There are no City roads planned in the area on the Master Transportation Plan.
     •   No local streets are stubbed to the property.
     •   A private lane would not affect access to neighboring properties.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 2
June 25, 2026


Staff determined that the subdivision met all criteria for a private lane and recommended
approval with the conditions outlined in the Staff Report. Notices were sent to property
owners within 300 feet of the subject property, and no comments were received.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Matheson regarding property lines
seeming to go out into Redwood Road, Development Services Director Jason Lethbridge
reported that parcels indicated on the diagram were split off by the Utah Department of
Transportation ("UDOT") when Redwood Road was widened and were not part of the
development. The parcels were wholly owned by UDOT.

The applicant, Taylor Moore, stated that their intent to install a private street was made
clear with the rezoning request as it will make the project feasible. They needed to place
the access point as far from Redwood Road as possible, and easements at the rear of
Lots 5 through 8 made it impossible to have a wider public street. They would comply
with all conditions.

Commissioner Cannon thanked Mr. Moore for listening to the Planning Commission and
neighboring property owners and altering his plans accordingly. He felt that this project
was a great example of a developer working with the community.

Vice-Chair Beck opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public
hearing was closed.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Matheson, Mr. Lethbridge reported
that the private lane was an adequate distance from Redwood Road. Turn restrictions
would be required and verified during the Site Plan process. The criteria for a private lane
had been met, and it could not function as a public roadway.

Commissioner Keele moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-26-2035, an application for a Conditional Use for a private lane to be located at
13153, 13171, and 13191 South Redwood Road, subject to the following:

Conditions:

       1.     Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on
              private lanes.

       2.     Approval is for a private lane, with up to eight (8) lots accessing the
              private lane.

       3.     Private lane shall be at least 26 feet wide paved surface.

       4.     Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to
              the requirements of the Unified Fire Authority and the Riverton City
              Standards and Specifications.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              3
June 25, 2026



      5.     The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to
             the standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City
             Standards and Specifications.

      6.     Private lane shall be named and signed according to Riverton City
             Standards.

      7.     The subject parcel’s driveways, including the private lane entrance,
             shall conform to Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but
             not limited to width, number of driveways and separation distance
             between driveways.

      8.     The private lane shall be maintained by the homeowners; no City
             maintenance will be performed on the private lane.

      9.     Written CC&Rs or an agreement for shared access and maintenance
             of the private lane must be submitted with the subdivision plat.

Commissioner Marzo seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.


      B.     "FABULOUS FREDDY’S," PLZ-26-2013 AND 26-8007, A CONDITIONAL
             USE PERMIT FOR APPLICATION AND A COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN
             FOR APPROXIMATELY 3.79 ACRES LOCATED AT 4623 WEST 12600
             SOUTH.  THE APPLICANT PROPOSES TWO BUILDINGS THAT
             WOULD INCORPORATE A CAR WASH, CONVENIENCE STORE,
             OFFICE, AND STORAGE.       APPLICANT – PASCAL MEYER,
             ARCHITECT.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the Staff Report and indicated that the property was located in
the Mountain View Corridor on the south side of 12600 South near the Herriman
boundary. The subject property was part of the Western Springs development entitled in
the early 2000s. Other uses had been approved in the past, but the property remained
undeveloped. The application represented investment in the City and was a natural fit for
the volume of traffic in the area. The property will be accessed via 12600 South and 4570
West. Access from 12600 South would be right-in/right-out only.

The Site Plan and elevations were reviewed. The main building will include a gas station,
car wash, and convenience store, and the second structure will provide office and storage
space. Proposed landscaping complied with all requirements and featured heavier
landscaping along roadways to soften the frontage. There will be a drive-through for the
convenience store, as well as separate drive-through lanes for the car wash. A bypass
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  4
June 25, 2026


lane was also proposed to ensure site circulation. The proposed building architecture
was compliant with City Code and consistent with the nearby tire store.

Staff recommended approval subject to the conditions outlined in the Staff Report.
Mr. Lethbridge reported that the number of conditions was not indicative of problems but
rather intended to clarify requirements. Some conditions were standard, and others were
site-specific.

The applicant, Pascal Meyer, stated that they believed the Site Plan worked well for the
project. It will be a full-service gas station. The convenience store will have dining
options, and the full-service car wash will include vacuums and an area for detailing. The
private building to the west will be for office staff and storage. They were excited to bring
the Fabulous Freddy’s experience to Riverton. He indicated that the property owner,
Freddy Smith, was also available to answer questions.

In response to a question from Vice-Chair Beck, Mr. Meyer reported that it would be the
company’s fifth location in Utah. There was one in Sandy, three in Saint George, and
one in Lehi.

Commissioner Cannon stated that it was exciting to see Fabulous Freddy’s grow.

Vice-Chair Beck opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE
Application PLZ-26-8007 and 26-2013, “Fabulous Freddy’s,” Conditional Use
Permit and Final Site Plan for property located at 4323 West 12600 South, subject
to the following conditions:

       1.     Park strip landscaping on 4570 West shall be maintained by property
              owner.     City-maintained park strip on 12600 South must be
              repaired/restored to City Standards prior to occupancy.

       2.     Signage shall comply with Riverton City Standards and Ordinances
              and shall require separate approval and permitting.

       3.     Site Improvements and the Building, including the exterior finish,
              dumpster enclosures, and landscaping, and all other improvements
              shall be consistent with the plans presented to the Planning
              Commission except where otherwise noted.

       4.     Applicant shall correct or resolve any outstanding Staff redlines.

       5.     Building and Site lighting shall be installed and screened according to
              Riverton City Standards, including strip/LED lighting.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              5
June 25, 2026



      6.     Rooftop mechanical shall be screened from view.

      7.     Wall-mounted service panels shall be painted to match the building.

      8.     The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable
             Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, including the International
             Building and Fire Codes.

      9.     The Applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm
             Water Management Plan according to Riverton City Standards and
             Ordinances prior to receiving building occupancy.

      10.    A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
             construction grading on the site.

      11.    The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.


Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.                 The motion passed with
unanimous consent of the Commission.


      C.     "WINDOW SIGNAGE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT,” PLZ-26-5006, A
             PROPOSAL BY RIVERTON CITY TO AMEND RIVERTON CITY SIGN
             CODE SECTIONS 18.150.040, 18.150.090, AND 18.150.120
             REGULATING WINDOW SIGNS.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that the item was continued from the last Planning Commission
meeting, and feedback received at that time had been incorporated into the ordinance.

Staff had identified areas where the language needed to be clarified, including the
definition of “window sign,” which currently read:

      (11) Window Signs. Window signs, including posters, messages or displays
      painted or mounted on the interior side of a window; provided that no more than
      50 percent of the total window area on which the sign is located is covered.

An issue had also arisen with a business that questioned the difference between signage
and tinting. The proposed amendment specified that no emblems or logos are allowed
on tint material. If that requirement was met, the material was not regulated under this
code section.

Staff reviewed other cities’ window signage regulations to determine whether the 50%
limitation was overly strict, and it was determined that 50% is very lenient. Many cities
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                6
June 25, 2026


set stricter limitations on the number of windows that can be covered. The updated
language specified that a maximum of 50% of any single window could be covered, and
not more than 33% of the entire surface area of all windows on each façade. Mr.
Lethbridge reported that the Planning Commission could recommend alternate
requirements at its discretion.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that the following changes had been made since the last meeting:

     •   A question arose about how the City distinguishes between a single window or
         group of windows, and the current language reflected the industry standard.
     •   Language was added to allow windows 10 square feet or smaller to cover the entire
         surface area provided that square footage is included in the overall calculations.
     •   Language giving law enforcement discretion over whether window signage is in
         violation had been removed and replaced with: Window signs shall not be located
         as to block clear view of exits or entrances or to create a safety hazard.

Commissioner Matheson indicated that the proposed language for § 18.150.090(11)(a)
had a grammatical error. Mr. Lethbridge reported that the amendment would be
proofread and any errors corrected.

Vice-Chair Beck opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of the Proposed Amendments to Riverton City Code Sections
18.150.040, 18.150.090, and 18.150.120, with the following modifications:

         1.    Grammatical corrections as noted.

Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.

3.       MINUTES

         A.    PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING MINUTES FROM THE JUNE 11,
               2026, PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING.

Commissioner Keele moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the minutes
from the Planning Commission meeting on June 11, 2026, as reported.
Commissioner Marzo seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.

4.       ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:01 PM.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting   7
June 25, 2026
