Approved: PC 12.14.23

                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                NOVEMBER 9, 2023

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                  Staff:

Jon Gilchrist, Chair                          Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Shelly Cluff                                  Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Evan Matheson                                 Matt Cassel, City Engineer
Troy Rushton

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Jon Gilchrist called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. The Pledge was
led by Commissioner Cluff.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     RIVERTON ACRES PRIVATE LANE, PLZ-23-2033, A CONDITIONAL USE
              APPLICATION TO ADD ANOTHER LOT TO A PRIVATE LANE LOCATED
              AT 3546 WEST 13400 SOUTH. APPLICANT - BOB JONES. THIS ITEM
              WILL NOT BE HEARD AT THE NOVEMBER 9TH PC MEETING.

Chair Gilchrist reported the above item has been noticed but was removed from the Agenda.

       B.     MASTER AUTO TECH, PLZ-23-8020, AN AMENDMENT TO A
              PREVIOUSLY APPROVED SITE PLAN LOCATED AT 2284 WEST 12600
              SOUTH. APPLICANT - GUILFORD RAND.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the Staff Report and stated that the above
application is for an Amended Commercial Site Plan for Master Auto Tech. The subject
property is located at 2284 West 12600 South. Mr. Prestwich reported that the business
received original approval around 2005. The applicant now wishes to make modifications
and update the front of the building. Public notice was sent to the surrounding neighbors
within 300 feet and no public comments were received. A property rendering was displayed.
Mr. Prestwich indicated that the plan complies with the CG Zone with the addition of
windows, a black steel canopy, and red accents. Mr. Prestwich reported all proposed
changes meet City Ordinance and keep the building within City Code. Staff recommended
approval with the conditions enumerated in the Staff Report.

William Isaacson with Architecture Coalition was present representing the applicant. The
proposed Amendment to the Site Plan includes the replacement of two signs, adding a steel
awning canopy, and architectural aluminum panels on the front. The upgrades are for the
Master Muffler rebranding.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               2
November 9, 2023

Chair Gilchrist asked if there would be alternative signage following the removal of the two
existing signs. Mr. Isaacson responded that there would be a simple letter “M” above the
awning for the rebranding. The proposed red material is an ACM panel, Alucobond, a thin
metal-like panel with greater resilience. There are no plans to paint the roof, which will
remain as-is.

Chair Gilchrist opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cluff asked if the logo is reviewed as part of the Site Plan Approval.
Mr. Prestwich stated that signs are a permitted use and are reviewed by Staff. Any proposed
signage must meet the size requirements and other conditions. Reference was made to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-23-
8020 Master Auto Tech Amended Commercial Site Plan with the following conditions:

      1.     Site Plan Improvements and the building shall be consistent with the
             plans presented to the Planning Commission except where otherwise
             noted.

      2.     A Building Permit must be issued before work may commence on the
             building.

      3.     The site and structure shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
             City Standards and Ordinances, including the International Building and
             Fire Codes.

Commissioner Rushton seconded the motion.                 The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      C.     MOUNTAIN RIDGE APARTMENTS, PLZ-23-8016, A COMMUNITY AND
             BLOCK SCALE PLAN THAT PROPOSES 235 APARTMENT UNITS ON
             APPROXIMATELY 6.9 ACRES LOCATED IN THE SLR ZONE AT THE
             SOUTHEAST CORNER OF 13400 SOUTH AND MOUNTAIN VIEW
             CORRIDOR. APPLICANT - EDGE HOMES

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the application is for a Community
and Block Scale Plan that proposes 235 apartment units on 6.9 acres. The applicant was
identified as Edge Homes with the subject property located at 12400 South and Mountain
View Corridor. Public notice was sent to all property owners within 300 feet of the exterior
property boundaries and no comments were received. A site rendering was displayed.
Mr. Prestwich supported the proposed request and believed it fits within the City’s vision of
the Suburban Land Reserve (“SLR”) Zone. The two buildings included a number of
architectural elements and features to break up the larger massing. He reiterated that this
is an SLR Project that follows a slightly different review process that is governed by the
Master Development Agreement and the SLR Specific Development District.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                3
November 9, 2023


Mr. Prestwich reviewed the application and stated that the Edge Homes request includes a
Community Scale and Block Scale Plan which are high-level conceptual plans presented to
determine project feasibility. The Ordinance allows the two to be combined as a single
Phase. The property map reflected the properties to the north and east, which are both
zoned Regional Commercial and not included in the SLR. The subject properties are platted
and at different stages of construction with several townhomes and single-family homes
being occupied. Primary access will be along Vernet Street and Sentinel Drive. SLR is the
owner of Rose Creek, which is used as a Salt Lake County Flood Control facility that includes
an easement from Salt Lake County to maintain with others having jurisdiction and
regulatory ability over the property. The applicant will be required to work through the
easement to get a bridge to cross into their apartment site.

Mr. Prestwich presented images of the site depicting two large buildings and a clubhouse
with remnant parcels being utilized for parking. He appreciated the applicant’s design that
utilizes the entire site, which will be maintained by the company that owns the apartment
building. Access will be from Vernet Drive and parking will be at the edge of the property on
both ends with right-in and right-out access. Details of property access will continue to be
refined. Mr. Prestwich reported that the applicant obtained Cross Access Agreements from
the adjacent businesses. The proposed units are a mix of studio, one-, and two-bedroom
units with 96% of the apartments being less than 1,000 square feet in size. 62% are smaller
than 700 square feet. The proposed parking configuration was reviewed. It was noted that
the request is conceptual and no construction will begin until the detailed plan is approved
by the Planning Commission. At that time it must be consistent with the plan studies and
design guidelines as presented. Staff recommended approval with conditions listed in the
Staff Report.

Chair Gilchrist asked if the access point on 13400 South is close to Mountain View Corridor
where the Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”) has jurisdiction. His concern was
with the median and curb having a left-in and left-out access. He indicated that the closest
place will require a wrong-way U-turn at the first intersection on Mountain View Corridor,
which is extremely unsafe. With the Governor’s renewed emphasis on trails, he considered
the Mountain View Trail to be a high priority. It appeared that they would potentially be
cutting off the connection to a future Welby Jacobs Canal Trail. He wondered if the project
would potentially preclude future trail connections and emphasized the need to plan for some
kind of trail connection before the opportunity is eliminated. Mr. Prestwich reported that the
trail is existing along the south side of Rose Creek.

Commissioner Rushton commented that Riverton City has considered the trail to be of
concern but ultimately jurisdiction lies with UDOT who controls the Mountain View Corridor.
He understood that the Mountain View Corridor would at some point be converted to a
freeway and questioned access from the outside eliminating the possibility of future
widening. Once housing is constructed, he asked if UDOT will be required to construct
sound walls. Mr. Prestwich responded that UDOT would treat the northbound frontage lane
as a local road and construct a freeway on the inside. The local road will become part of
the UDOT off-ramp system.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   4
November 9, 2023

City Attorney, Ryan Carter remarked when these types of issues arise, a Betterment
Agreement may be negotiated with UDOT as standard practice. He believed UDOT’s
position would be that a sound wall is warranted and may put pressure on the City, which
will allow them to spend it as betterment. Negotiation will then begin over how much money
the City will give UDOT to make it happen. He confirmed that it will become part of the public
process.

Commissioner Cluff referenced the adjacent doctor’s office and wondered if residents will
try to utilize their parking lot at times when the resident parking lot is full. She asked if the
office would have any recourse if it becomes an issue. Mr. Carter stated that it would be
within the rights of the doctor’s office to tow vehicles that do not belong to patients. Mr.
Prestwich confirmed that the planned parking is adequate and will include 1.5 stalls per unit.

The applicant, Steve Maddox, identified himself as the owner of Edge Homes. He
referenced the proposed Site Plan and reported that he received a call from a Council
Member who had safety concerns with the upcoming flex school that is opening in Herriman
where 13800 South and Mountain View Corridor connect. He agreed with the Council
Member to guarantee the completion of the road prior to the 2024 school year. Plans will
be forthcoming. Mr. Maddox stated that Edge Homes has been in negotiations with the
three cities located across the Welby Jacob Canal and has entered into an agreement with
the Bluffdale City Manager and Engineer. With the closing of Bangerter Highway, they have
submitted plans, agreements, and boundary lines with the creation of routes by Spring 2024.
Park and trail plans include 26 acres of public open space.

Mr. Maddox reported that the intersection in question is owned by UDOT but they would be
willing to make it aesthetically pleasing as instructed since it is a gateway to the City. In
UDOT’s present opinion, the wall will not be a sound wall and will become a less traverse
road than today. The road will transition into a frontage road with a local speed limit of 30
MPH. One of the restrictions in the STD that does not apply to other properties is that the
full enclosure of their entire project with a wall will run the length of the perimeter. He
explained that another unique item to the project is the cross easement with everything in
the residential portion to the south side. Input from the Commission was that names for the
project were welcomed. He noted they have had enjoyable interactions with Staff and
discovered items that can be rectified as the project moves forward. A great deal of time
has been spent reviewing the architecture and meeting the intent of the SLR since the
project began in 2014. He confirmed that efforts to mitigate vehicular speed and connectivity
with Bluffdale City are ongoing.

A project rendering was shared. Mr. Maddox considered this to be the type of amenity that
draws those seeking a studio unit for a single individual with one vehicle and a walkable
community. The area includes one million square feet of commercial space across 85 acres.
The project is unique in shape with the SDD requiring the architecture to be pushed up to
Mountain View Corridor and 13400 South so that the viewshed is of the architecture and not
the parking lot. They will continue to work with UDOT on the right-in and right-out access
and confirm that the request meets the fire safety requirements for a 45-foot fire truck. All
structures will be fire sprinkled and meet all Unified Fire Authority (“UFA”) requirements. He
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              5
November 9, 2023

did not anticipate any parking issues as the proposed parking exceeds the requirement and
is high based on the square footage.

Mr. Maddox next reviewed the interior elements of the project. They intended to incorporate
the same exterior elements on the inside of the building to accentuate eastern mountain
views. A xeriscape motif will be incorporated while conforming with the current Ordinance
for greenspace. Amenities will include a clubhouse, and swimming pool, with a dog park
with walkable trails in the residential, not for rent, locations. Snow removal issues were
discussed. Edge Homes has spent six months working with SLR to gain a better
understanding of their commitment and vision. Mr. Maddox reported that the proposal is
less than originally approved by SLR with 235 units. Commission comments and
suggestions were welcomed.

Commissioner Rushton acknowledged that both sides of Rose Creek are in a shared or
cooperative Homeowners Association (“HOA”) situation. He asked if the plan includes wider
parking stalls if the applicant would be required to return to the Commission. Mr. Prestwich
explained that there is adequate parking along one side of Vernet Street. Any additional
parking requirements would be covered in the detailed plan when it returns to the
Commission. Mr. Maddox confirmed that parking will be a hybrid plan where stall
assignments will be designated based on vehicle type. Staff reported that SLR was entitled
across the 600 acres to a certain unit count and may choose to allocate those units to any
parcel. The Block Scale Plan to the south has been approved and there will be ongoing
efforts to work through the detailed plans.

Commissioner Cluff asked how the applicant intends to fill the apartments and maintain the
number of residents in the smaller studio spaces. Mr. Maddox responded that they will be
extremely restrictive with regard to ownership and will conduct monthly inspections. The
development will become popular due to walkability and evictions will take place as efforts
are made to maintain a high standard of living.

Chair Gilchrist asked if pedestrians from the trail would have access to the development.
Mr. Maddox stated that the residential development goes to the fence with UDOT owning
the balance. That space will be maintained by the HOA on the residential, for-sale product.
They have created pedestrian connectivity by opening up the sidewalk on Mountain View
Corridor with cross easements in the residential spaces. Preferred connection locations
were identified.

Commissioner Matheson is an avid bicyclist and appreciated being able to access Mountain
View Corridor rather than having to navigate a pedestrian trail. He asked if the bike lanes
and wide shoulders will remain when the new freeway is constructed. With regard to the
project name, he suggested the Hamilton Family Name be included.

Commissioner Rushton considered this to be an impressive project and one that is
desperately needed. Mr. Maddox stated that the units are intended to be used as transitional
housing and a step to becoming permanent community residents.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                            6
November 9, 2023

Chair Gilchrist supported Commissioner Rushton’s suggestion to memorialize the Hamilton
name in the development.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-23-
8016 Mountain Ridge Apartments Community and Block Scale Plan to be located near
the southeast corner of Mountain View Highway and 13400 South subject to the
following conditions:

      1.     No Construction may begin until a Detailed Plan is approved.

      2.     The Detailed Plan shall be consistent with the Plans, Studies, and Design
             Guidelines presented as part of this application unless otherwise noted
             in this motion.

      3.     The applicant must obtain any and all necessary approvals and/or
             permits from applicable outside agencies or jurisdictions.

      4.     The site and structures, including public and private infrastructure, must
             comply with the terms, conditions, and requirements of the SLR Master
             Development Agreement with the Specific Development District.

      5.     The entrance/exit onto 13400 South is subject to further engineering
             analysis and possible design changes which may alter the movements
             in and/or out of the site onto 13400 South.

      6.     Site fencing will be reviewed and approved with the Detailed Plan.

Commissioner Gilchrist seconded the motion.            The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

Mr. Carter reported that there were no members of the public present for public comment
other than the applicant.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     MOUNTAIN RIDGE PHASE 21, PLZ-23-8014, A FINAL/DETAIL PLAN THAT
             PROPOSES 62 SINGLE AND MULTI-FAMILY UNITS ON 6.3 ACRES IN THE
             SLR ZONE NEAR 13400 SOUTH AND MOUNTAIN VIEW CORRIDOR.
             APPLICANT - EDGE HOMES.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that his presentation will cover both
Decision Items, which will require separate motions. The above item is a request for the
Mountain Ridge Phase 21 Final/Detail Plan that proposes 62 single and multi-family units.
The subject property consists of 6.3 acres in the SLR Zone located near 13400 South and
Mountain View Corridor. The applicant was identified as Edge Homes. Mr. Prestwich stated
the Block Scale Plan was previously approved at the Planning Commission Meeting held on
June 23, 2022. A property rendering was shared. Mr. Prestwich appreciated the efficiency
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               7
November 9, 2023

of Edge Homes, which builds roads up to the edge of a property while maintaining ease of
construction and keeping crews moving. The condominium units become a parcel and
record an individual sheet, which creates separate ownership within the units. Staff
recommended approval with conditions listed in the Staff Report.

The applicant, Brandon Watson from Edge Homes, stated that Phases 21 and 22 are
complementary to the previous presentation and work their way to 13400 South. Phases
23 and 24 are forthcoming and will finish off 13800 South from Sentinel to access Mountain
View Corridor.

Commissioner Cluff asked if the project provides sufficient area for snow storage following
a heavy storm. Mr. Watson reported that the buildings and condominium areas have a much
larger setback than they would traditionally plan for. He confirmed that there will also be
adequate space between each of the buildings for snow storage.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Project PLZ-23-
8014, Mountain Ridge Phase 21 Final Plan to be located near 13700 South Sentinel
Ridge Boulevard with the following conditions:

      1.     This Phase will comply with the terms and conditions approved with the
             Block Scale Plan and with the SLR Project Area Master Development
             Agreement.

      2.     This Phase shall be subject to the final development review and
             comments by the City, including but not limited to stormwater, culinary,
             and pressurized irrigation systems design.

      3.     Applicant must update their Long-Term Storm Water Management Plan
             or Covenant to Maintain to reflect the updated site plan as required by
             City Ordinance.

      4.     The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
             City Standards and Ordinances, including the International Building and
             Fire Codes.

Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.                The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Planning Commission.

      B.     MOUNTAIN RIDGE PHASE 22, PLZ-23-8017, A FINAL/DETAIL PLAN THAT
             PROPOSES 107 SINGLE AND MULTI-FAMILY UNITS ON 6.7 ACRES IN
             THE SLR ZONE NEAR 13400 SOUTH AND MOUNTAIN VIEW CORRIDOR.
             APPLICANT - EDGE HOMES.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the above item is a request for
Mountain Ridge Phase 22, Final/Detail Plan for 107 single and multi-family units on 6.7 acres
in the SLR Zone. The subject property is located at 13400 South and Mountain View
Corridor. The applicant will be required to complete the walking path through this Phase
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                           8
November 9, 2023

and the six-foot masonry wall along Mountain View Highway (along the west line of Phase
22) must be installed before occupancy is granted for units in this phase. Mr. Prestwich
clarified this is with occupancy so the units and fencing may be built simultaneously.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Project
PLZ-23-8017, Mountain Ridge Phase 22 Final Plan to be located near 13700 South
Sentinel Ridge Boulevard with the following conditions:

      1.     This Phase will comply with the terms and conditions approved with the
             Block Scale Plan and with the SLR Project Area Master Development
             Agreement.

      2.     This Phase shall be subject to the final development review and
             comments by the City, including but not limited to stormwater, culinary,
             and pressurized irrigation systems design.

      3.     Applicant must update their Long-Term Storm Water Management Plan
             or Covenant to Maintain to reflect the updated site plan as required by
             City Ordinance.

      4.     The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
             City Standards and Ordinances, including the International Building and
             Fire Codes.

      5.     The six-foot masonry wall along Mountain View Highway (west line of
             Phase 22) must be installed before occupancy is granted for units in this
             phase.

Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Planning Commission.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.     None.

5.    MINUTES

      A.     9/28/23 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes of September 28, 2023, as presented. Commissioner
Rushton seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                               9
November 9, 2023

      B.    10/26/23 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes of October 26, 2023, as reported.
Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:53 p.m.
