WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 19-04-01 DATED: April 4, 2019
A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL APPROVING AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION
AGREEMENT BETWEEN SANDY CITY AND WHITE CITY METRO
TOWNSHIP FOR CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS TO
SANDY CANAL TRAIL BETWEEN CARNATION DRIVE AND
10600 SOUTH, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
RECITALS

A. The White City Metro Township (the “Metro Township”) is a Metro Township
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated §§ 10-2a-401 et seg.

B. Sandy City is a municipality that owns the Sandy Canal (the “Canal”), which is an
irrigation canal that runs through White City.

C. Sandy desires to enter into an agreement with White City to vacate the canal
easement, and for the easement to be developed into a multi-use trail for the use of
pedestrians, cyclists, and other non-motorized uses.

D. White City, also desires to work with Sandy to develop the trail along the canal
easement and for the property to be deeded to White City after the trail is
developed.

E. To their mutual agreement and commitment to the goals of the trail, the attached
Agreement between White City and Sandy City, hereinafter to be known as
Exhibit “A,” has been created for consideration and possible approval.

F, White City and Sandy view the completion of the trail as beneficial to fulfilling
the public needs of both White City and Sandy City.

RESOLUTION
THEREFORE, IT IS RESOLVED the White City Metro Township Council
hereby approves and authorizes the Mayor to sign the attached agreement with Sandy
City, hereinafter known as Exhibit A, to facilitate the construction of the trail along the
Sandy Canal.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the White City Metro Township, Salt Lake
County, Utah this a day of April, 2019.
BY: { A es betca- wi ET
Paulina F. Flint, Mayor
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
. hn Dune ne PAUL H. ASHTON
Sherrie Swensen METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
VOTING
Councilmember Cutler voting ANE
Councilmember Dickerson voting ATE
Mayor Flint voting Axe.
Councilmember Perry voting | rte
Councilmember Price voting A to

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Costruction Agreement
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
between
SANDY CITY
and
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
FOR CONSTRUCTION OF SANDY CANAL TRAIL AND STORMWATER
IMPROVEMENTS
[Between Carnation Drive and 10600 South, Salt Lake County, Utah]

‘ THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made and
entered into this day of , 2019 (the “Effective Date”) between SANDY CITY,
a municipal corporation of the State of Utah ("Sandy City"), and White City Metro Township,
a municipal corporation of the State of Utah ("White City"). Sandy City and White City are
collectively referred to herein as the "Parties."

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-101, et seq. (the "Interlocal Cooperation Act"),
authorizes public agencies to enter into joint agreements with each other on a basis of mutual
advantage to provide services and facilities in a manner consistent with best geographic,
economic, population, and other factors influencing the needs and development of local
communities; and

WHEREAS, the Parties have worked together to design the Sandy Canal Trail, with
upgraded stormwater collection, in the location of the Sandy Canal from Carnation Drive to
10600 South, Salt Lake County, Utah (the "Project") pursuant to Interlocal Agreement, dated

, (attached hereto as Exhibit "1") and now desire to construct the Project; and

WHEREAS, White City desires Sandy City to complete the Project and dedicate the
same to White City following completion; and

WHEREAS, White City and Sandy City intend to each pay a portion of the cost of
Project construction costs; and

WHEREAS, the Parties are concurrently entering into a separate interlocal cooperation
agreement setting forth the terms and conditions of the dedication; and

WHEREAS, the Parties desire to enter into this interlocal cooperation agreement to set
forth the obligations and responsibilities of both Parties in completion and sharing the cost of
construction of the Project.

AGREEMENT:
1

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Costruction Agreement

NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, and
provisions contained herein, the Parties mutually hereby agree as follows:

1. Project. Sandy City shall, as requested by White City, construct the Project as
shown in Exhibit A of this Agreement, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.
Sandy City hereby agrees that the Project will be competitively bid in accordance with al! laws,
ordinances, rules and procedures applicable to Sandy City construction projects.

2. Access. White City hereby grants to Sandy City all required permission and
access for work to be performed on the Project, as applicable.

3. Public Bid Opening. Sandy City shall inform White City of the date and time of
the public bid opening for the Project, and a representative of White City may attend.

4. Award of Bid; Deposit. Based on the bids received and applicable laws,
ordinances, rules and procedures applicable to Sandy City construction projects, Sandy City,
after consultation with White City, shall select the lowest responsive and responsible bidder.
Sandy City shall thereafter notify White City of the selection and the selected contractor’s bid
amount for the Project (the “Contract Price”). Within thirty (30) days after the bid opening,
White City, through the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District ("MSD") shall deposit in a
mutually approved Project Reserve Account funds (the “Deposit”) in an amount equal to one
hundred percent (100%) of the Contract Price, less $150,000 (“City’s Maximum Contribution”).

5. Construction Contractor. Sandy City shall enter into a contract ("Contract")
with the selected contractor ("Contractor"). The scope of work and Contract Price shall be as set
forth in the selected contractor’s bid and Contract.

6. Use of Deposit.

(a) Sandy City shall require the Contractor to submit pay requests, and Sandy
City shall pay approved amounts from the Deposit, less any standard retention held in
accordance with Sandy City’s ordinances, rules, regulations and policies generally applicable to
Sandy City construction projects and to the Project. Copies of the pay requests, together with
proof of payment shall be sent to the MSD, acting as agent for White City. In addition, Sandy
City shall pay $150,000, representing Sandy City's maximum contribution, of the approved
amounts from the City’s Maximum Contribution. Sandy City may determine in City’s sole
discretion which payments are made from the City’s Maximum Contribution and which
payments are made from the Deposit.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph 6(a), the Parties understand and agree that
included in White City's contribution to the Project is $250,000 from an approved Transportation
Alternative Program (TAP) Grant being made available by the Utah Department of
Transportation ("UDOT Grant") for the Project, and Sandy City will pay approved amounts in
manner and timing to comply with the terms of the UDOT Grant. In that regard, UDOT shall
have the right to audit all cost records and accounts of White City pertaining to this Project. For

2

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Costruction Agreement
purpose of the audit, the Parties are required to keep and maintain its records of work covered for
a minimum of 3 years after completion of the Project.

(c) In the event the Contract Price is changed pursuant to change order
pursuant to the Contract, Sandy City shall provide White City with a statement showing the new
Contract Price. If the new Contract Price is greater than the Deposit plus Sandy City’s Maximum
Contribution, White City shall pay the additional amount required. If the Contract Price is less
than the Deposit plus Sandy City’s Maximum Contribution, White City will be entitled to the
savings as reflected in the balance of the Deposit.

7. Construction Management, Contract Administration, and Inspection.

(a) Sandy City shall perform all construction management and contract
administration relating to the Project at no additional cost to White City. Sandy City shall
manage and administer the Contract in accordance with Sandy City’s ordinances, rules,
regulations and policies generally applicable to Sandy City construction projects and the Project.

(b) Sandy City shall perform inspections of the Project in accordance with
Sandy City’s ordinances, rules regulations and policies generally applicable to Sandy City
construction projects and the Project.

(c) Sandy City in providing construction management, administration and
inspections for the Project will do so in good faith effort to protect the Parties’ interests
throughout the completion of the work on the Project. White City may also provide inspectors
and perform inspections and shall notify Sandy City of any and all concerns that may affect
White City’s acceptance of the Project after completion. Both Sandy City and White City shall
have access to visit and inspect the Project.

8. Modifications and Change Orders.

(a) White City agrees that if it modifies or cancels this Agreement, White City
shall pay any cancellation penalties or costs incurred by Sandy City as a result of the Project
being cancelled, including without limitation Sandy City’s administrative costs incurred in
preparation for commencing the Project and all accrued construction costs.

(b) Subject to section 7(e), White City shall be responsible to pay the Contract
Price, except the City’s Maximum Contribution, and all costs of scope or schedule changes will
be the responsibility of White City beyond Sandy City's Maximum Contribution.

(c) Sandy City may issue work directives as reasonably necessary and shall
inform White City of a work directive after it is issued. Sandy City shall approve change orders
for the Project after providing White City a reasonable opportunity to provide feedback on the
proposed change. To facilitate White City feedback, change orders shall be copied to White
City, through the MSD, and excepting in case of emergency in order to prevent harm to property
of person, or to prevent costly delays in the Project, White City shall have three business days to
provide feedback.

3

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Costruction Agreement

(d) Subject to section 7(c) - (e), Sandy City shall determine, in its sole
discretion, whether changes or additions must or may be incorporated into the Project.

(i) If, for convenience of White City, White City requests changes in
the scope of the Project resulting in extra work, and the Parties determine after consultation to
incorporate such changes or additions, Sandy City may request a written modification to this
Agreement and an adjustment to the Deposit, prior to the start of work on the incorporated
changes or additions.

(ii) If changes in the scope are necessary because of changed site
conditions or other emergency, work may commence immediately, and the costs may be paid
from the Deposit; upon reasonable request from Sandy City, White City shall replenish the
Deposit.

(e) If, for convenience of Sandy City, Sandy City requests changes in the
scope of the Project resulting in extra work, and the Parties determine after consultation to
incorporate such changes or additions, White City may request a written modification to this
Agreement and an adjustment to the Sandy City's Maximum Contribution, prior to the start of
work on the incorporated changes or additions.

9. Ownership, Operation, and Maintenance of the Project. It is agreed by the
Parties, Sandy City will convey the Project to White City, upon completion, and White City will
thereafter have the sole responsibility for operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the
Project in accordance with the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between Sandy City and White
City Metro Township for Property Conveyance of Sandy Canal Trail and Stormwater
Improvements entered into concurrently with this Agreement.

10. Termination.

(a) This Agreement shall terminate upon the earlier of the following: (i) two
(2) years after the Effective Date; (ii) when all work related to the Project is fully completed and
accepted by Sandy City, and all amounts have been paid as contemplated herein; or (iii) mutual
agreement of the Parties.

(b) Upon written notice to the other Party, either Party may terminate this
Agreement at any time prior to award of the construction Contract; provided that if White City so
terminates, White City shall pay any cancellation penalties or costs incurred by Sandy City as a
result of the Project being cancelled, including without limitation Sandy City’s administrative
costs incurred in preparation for commencing the Project.

11. Miscellaneous Provisions. The following provisions are also an integral part of
this Agreement:

(a) Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shail inure to
the benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective Parties hereto.

4

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Costruction Agreement

(b) Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference
purposes only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the
meaning, scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or the intent
thereof.

(c) Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts
with the same effect as if the signatures upon any counterpart were upon the same instrument.
All signed counterparts shall be deemed to be one original.

(d) Liability and Indemnification. The Parties are both governmental entities
under the "Utah Governmental Immunity Act" (Utah Code Ann. § 63-30-1, et seq.) (the "Act").
Consistent with the terms of the Act, and as provided herein, it is mutually agreed that each Party
is responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligent acts which are committed by it or by
its agents, officials, or employees. Neither Party waives any defenses otherwise available under
the Act nor does any Party waive any limits of liability currently provided by the Act.

(e) Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should any
provision hereof be deemed void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable,
unenforceable or invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement, and
those other provision shall remain in full force and effect.

(f) Waiver of Breach. Any waiver by either Party of any breach of any kind or
character whatsoever by the other Party, whether such breach be direct or implied, shall not be
construed as a continuing waiver of, or consent to any subsequent breach of this Agreement.

(g) Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument in
writing signed by the Parties hereto.

(h) Interpretation. This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed and enforced
according to the substantive laws of the State of Utah. This Agreement is the result of arms-
length negotiations between the Parties, and both Sandy City and White City have had
substantive input regarding the various provisions of this Agreement. Accordingly, each of the
Parties affirms its desire that this Agreement be interpreted in an absolutely neutral fashion with
no regard to any rule of interpretation (or the like) requiring that the provisions of this
Agreement be construed to favor of the non-drafting Party.

(i) Notice. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be
deemed sufficient if given by any communication in writing and shall be deemed to have been
received (a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within three (3) days after
such notice is deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, and certified and addressed
to the Parties as set forth below:

Township: White City Metro Township
Attn: Paulina F Flint
10467 S Carnation Drive
Sandy, UT 84094
5

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Costruction Agreement

Copy To: Paul H Ashton, Esq.
Boyack Ashton LC
1237 E Lorraine Drive
Salt Lake City, UT 84106

City: Sandy City Public Utilities Director
10000 Centennial Parkway, Suite 241
Sandy, UT 84070

Copy to: Sandy City Attorney’s Office
10000 Centennial Parkway, Suite 301
Sandy, UT 84070

(j) Assignment. Neither Party may assign its rights or delegate its duties under
this Agreement to any other person(s) or entity(ies) without prior written consent of the other
Party.

(k) Survival. All of the Parties' respective representations, covenants, warranties,
and obligations including, without limitation, any obligation to indemnify, set forth herein shall
survive the Termination of this Agreement.

(1) Exhibits and Recitals. The recitals set forth above and all exhibits to this
Agreement are incorporated herein to the same extent as if such items were set forth herein in
their entirety within the body of this Agreement.

(m) Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, and in connection with this Agreement, the Parties hereby agree as
follows:

(i) This Agreement shall be approved by each Party pursuant to Section
11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act;

(ii) This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance
with applicable law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each Party, pursuant to Section
11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act;

(iii) A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed
with the keeper of records of each Party, pursuant to Section 11-13-209 of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act;

(iv) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall be
responsible for its own costs of any action taken pursuant to this Agreement, and for any
financing of such costs; and

(v) No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement, to
the extent that this Agreement requires administration other than as set forth herein, it shall be
administered by a joint board of the representatives for both the White City and Sandy City, or

6

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Costruction Agreement

their designees. No real or personal property shall be acquired jointly by the Parties as a result of
this Agreement. To the extent that a Party acquires, holds or disposes of any real or personal
property for use in the joint or cooperative undertaking contemplated by this Agreement, such
Party shall do so in the same manner that it deals with other property of such Party.

(n) Protection of the Scrivener. No provision of this Agreement, nor any
ambiguities that may be contained within this Agreement, shall be construed against any Party
on the grounds that such Party or Party's counsel drafted the provision at issue or that the
provision at issue contains a covert, representation or warranty of such Party.

(0) Agency. No agent, employee or servant of the Sandy City, White City, or
MSD is or shall be deemed to be an employee, agent, or servant of the other Party. None of the
benefits provided by each party to its employees including, but not limited to, worker’s
compensation insurance, health insurance, and unemployment insurance, are available to the
employees, agents, or servants of the other party. Sandy City, White City, and MSD shall each
be solely and entirely responsible for its own acts and for the acts of its own agents, employees,
and servants during the performance of this Agreement. Sandy City acts as an independent
contractor, and is not an employee or agent of White City in the performance of this Agreement.

(p) Force Majure. No party shall be liable for any excess costs if the failure to
perform arises from causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of that party,
including but not limited to acts of God, fires, floods, strikes, or unusually severe weather. If
such condition continues for a period in excess of 60 days, any party shall have the right to
terminate this Agreement without liability or penalty effective upon written notice to the other
party.

(q) No Obligatin to Third Parties. The Parties agree that the Parties’ obligations
under this Agreement are solely to each other. This Agreement shall not confer any rights to
third parties.

(r) Governing Law. The laws of the State of Utah govern all matters arising out
of this Agreement.

(s) Ethical Standards. The Parties each represent that it has not: (a) provided an
illegal gift or payoff to any officer or employee, or former officer or employee, or to any relative
or business entity of an officer or employee, or relative or business entity of a former officer or
employee of the other party; (b) retained any person to solicit or secure this Agreement upon an
agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, other
than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies established for the purpose of
securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical standards set forth in State statutes or either
Parties' ordinances, rules of regulations; or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promises that it
will not knowingly influence, any officer or employee or former officer or employee of the other
to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in Parties' ordinances, rules of regulations.

IN WITNESS WHEREOPF, the Parties hereto enter into this Agreement as of the date
first written above.
7

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Costruction Agreement
SANDY CITY
By
Mayor Kurt Bradburn
Date:
Attest:
By:
Molly Spira, Sandy City Recorder
Approved as to Legal Form:
By.
Sandy City Attorney
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP,
a Utah municipal corporation
By: We
Mayor Paulina F. Flint
Approved as to Legal Form:
By:
White City Attorney
8

La eTg
= nal Property |% — =e
ST exhibit - Phases of Sandy cana City [eae cea nS a
Pima SE Reomittes = c= from Sandy Fine Sah aw ay FR Sy 2a) |
rs et, oa ; Seal | = > Fath gan Ls ee Bot Webster Dr § gheael
Jay. Unease | =F eo, gies RO 8
‘y . 7 Se d Dr fe Te Tees = kay oa . fiw a ~ Dy ae Zs ' a i Fe! Sins bs
ye Howard 0 ptm Po Ges ci ie b = ‘ a Sephine'Gi a oe |
Ps ree ra if be sy 5 {tre OER Pf LS tion - : e Ca aig: wh 4. Oh
dame ea : ao chan ~ = Der Bore. i ane ot dain "aes 5
Sa aa : ae hen en CU Mo City to Bi. O- See: (ae
Pe Elovesp a fee Ns 9590S . se = ‘{ Sandy We a git ee
" lo bP own ges 959) ~h z tp ‘ nFevt te :
By et | Sale ap a? cea Retain Easemen 3 scm ore PSone sy
fe - Je Eat ro 7) i” och tetie | Beshy by! =: a 2 ai = ey a ' ete , 3p) Hollow Ln == a
Bie enae mo) nea mia re a a Bae a
¥ = pes ber glo So aignid Ut Wes SS ISS * {ue = , Ps : Tie wy Re |
oe mee Lb ee WIENS ee Fs ia il i ment a Fa ta — = Sets to yas,
= ax w Wy } ea ee pen. ae eg oe ee -£ On ary o- in SS Sa Ses ae
Se a? Oe Reh 22k VE age oe oot!) Fee
ise p= ot EST bs i ; tat = ES pos Ue ks f * Wise aes hon
f am seal —< 3 P ’ ae . ‘= Bo 3 UAT os “f eS ] A j s ‘ORES em
' mile BRN a l——~/ < ade rf or eee ry Z. inal =i ee | ae - 3
siden Te | E Ha eg ~ Silica we 2 er ee T Oe meet
fa) - : po on =a os! fe= . : co feath PPE
* BP pl lll rin gaeers eke ee J a) Oe |e En
‘= Joegemare é a) ies ape ae ae Se aise a i eee} fs ahr’ a Hots
= SS i SS a ; Gale Ee | ple a wu = "bet S \ j  — rh Mn Ty : red — {
Ee =f 78 ee Shy SP Lp Wis: $F 3 el vey ete |
oe ” . 4, Ros Pras ot Se . She ‘ be y Se 3 i es ge" tre es a ETS =|
ape on geok es OB 3. ogee Cee ore i 1pP jal ae ite te a
Vile la! SEN Res ee Ie Se Sse nk Bee HN
ara) ae EEE Mo aR we 7 io" fo Gee we Se. Ray SN es eae Ses,
: goaos ee Se on YRS ot AG,» peed PY: ew4 Ma ge teu F ene Le | Bs
nL “7g SE, Moe. ral ge mo Ries mE {de Pie i os. Ph MAD ke aN Ti ake
~~ e, SUS re, - oe Bey oe 2) Cf Puy 7 ss ay at eo : i,
ian. 2. . ; athe Neoesas eon ee; ne, : SS Ay 4 A ~ catiye en :
fe) a SS ee oS Woe it |
| Ati th ai be ‘ ; rs <*> . abe” a 2 Fea SA pti izer is |
lOIZOS 3 Wt ALR erg Py a . cr ee . “ ke . ewe NES * gies ie 2) |
\ oe ely te ek PDT e SD BS ae it + ae Re Pine a 1s oe Sage ear a = ei
re Se PA, iy 5-3 _ a” oH BN yt ® re + “bu at ont se ~ ey + ar ‘
‘ E re Fae ae ack Bese Fre ee IS ge er
rie oo Se z ~~ 3 oy ve S “ ee psa 7, ak
f ZB ns BRS ‘ ee , NG Le es TaN a ‘
i} Neca cae Kao Etat <9 eS. e bits SP ie iy Ww 2 ee
be B ie atta NT <4 i | F edd a Al : eis ie: Spicy Ay a Key’ ae ic iecior Legs
| ca = ie a, Sim ce ty S Merengave tS ea Oe i) ey i: ee i
ae ae > ee moe ae Lp Verbena Ay ee Sark <a ee F oy be Pa
wee amily Gin # = ote 4 2a te ae 770“ bo ae Se ® pit 38 : BA
A eg el ro ee hte rs ce a SOR. on : 2. ee . ;
ae Se Beet (af atta: ae Sergeeeece Ur ty
Os SSN i r saath "ore ind eras thee Ow Sa Se = a NF - *.1 un . Se =e
a> & — ae +5 oot Sop, Vee Snagit ma ie ae) gs ae ne ey
LI } Re s gg 4 Vo 3 i ‘. ae Trit LAD AS =5 ey my ~ ae. 22 ) a a me
I That = Say Aloha | % or ob ets ios ee Seige 36 priors oe ty 4s Se Se es , hae
§ By saat ie: WA : : y a a = he a la — an <a el ee Wl
a. PICS. Sp = . eye fe LOBE? SOD et Peon. ar Sa Sana: 7 The ae 2 ae oe WY Ee |
std ine T > > a) eae Be = (Or iG ae ae : Rae “He Fag “ HATZ 0. Lae aN ae
east Tl Bi C eet ee} ke Jail 5 tp cat ee es bass ee me cet / sna
pe eee ea) f 7 ae iss ah eh ch fetes a Came, lend atts cua aze eS rg eae a
sas r aH oy eae Inasaten iL Sf ees Ae 1
nad esis Ses sob MW) WERE
ha ni —S —

RESOLUTION NO.: 18-04-02 DATE: 04-05-2018
A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL APPROVING
AND ADOPTING AN INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN WHITE CITY AND
SANDY CITY FOR THE DESIGN OF THE WHITE CITY-SANDY CANAL TRAIL
RECITALS
A. The White City Metro Township (“White City”) is a Metro Township pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated (““UCA”) §§ 10-2a-401 ef seq.
B, The White City Metro Township Council (“Council”) is a Metro Township Council pursuant
to UCA §§ 10-3b-501 et al.
C. Sandy City (“Sandy”) is a City and neighboring municipality to White City.
D. Sandy and White City desire to promote the development of a trial along the confluence of
the decommissioned Sandy Canal.
E. Asa part of the development of the trail, a design of the trail is needed to determine trail
aesthetics and the overall costs to construct.
F. Partnering with Sandy via an interlocal agreement allows White City and Sandy to more
effectively and efficiently achieve work towards the common goal of constructing the trail.
RESOLUTION
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the White City Metro Township Council, the |
Council approves and adopts the attached Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between White City
and Sandy City for the design of the White City-Sandy Canal Trail, hereinafter to be known as
Attachment “A” to this resolution, for the mutual benefit of White City and Sandy.
APPROVED and ADOPTED in the White City Metro Township, Salt Lake County, State of
Utah on this SG Day of ANDY \\ ,LO\¥_. ,
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
Paulina F. Flint, Mayor

via : APPROVED AS TO FORM:
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER | METRO SHIP ATTORNEY
Voting:
Councilmember Cutler voting Ie
Councilmember Dickerson voting /\0 __ .
Councilmember Flint voting Me
Councilmember Perry voting to.
| Councilmember Price voting Me.

RESOLUTION #18-21 C
.
A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF AN INTERLOCAL
COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN WHITE CITY AND SANDY
| CITY RELATING TO THE DESIGN OF SANDY CANAL TRAIL
BEIT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED that the City Council of Sandy City, State of
Utah, finds and determines as follows:
WHEREAS, Title 11, Chapter 13, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, permits.
public agencies to enter into cooperative agreements to provide joint undertakings and services;
and
WHEREAS, the City desires to complete design of certain improvements to the Sandy
Canal Trail (“Design”) and the Township agrees to provide funding to the City to assist in
completing the Design; and
WHEREAS, the Township and City desire set the obligations and responsibilities of both
parties in City’s completion of the Désign; and
WHEREAS, it has been determined that the best interests of the City and the general
public will be served by the execution of the attached Interlocal Cooperation Agreement and by
participating as required therein; and
WHEREAS, the attached agreement has been prepared to accomplish such purpose.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of Sandy City, Utah:
1. It does hereby approve the attached agreement described as an interlocal
agreement between White City and Sandy City relating to the design of Sandy Canal Trail.
2. The Hon. Kurt Bradbum, Mayor of Sandy City, is hereby authorized to execute
the agreement on behalf of Sandy City Corporation and to act in accordance with its terms.
DATED this (er day of \ ( ay , 2018,
da/Martinez Savill¢, Chair:
Sandy City Council

| ATTEST: ;
| 17h ; |
| City Recorder
| RECORDED aL) 2018. |
pici7y |
| 2h eo
OW eS
op "ee, rot NS
. | POR ATED 7
F |
| ‘
|

INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
Between
SANDY CITY
And
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
FOR DESIGN OF SANDY CANAL TRAIL
SSS

THIS ne Ae Ta COOPERATION AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made and
entered into this, 3° ay of ee , 2018, between WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP,
a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (hereafter "Township"), and the SANDY CITY, a
municipal corporation of the State of Utah ("City"). The Township and City are collectively
referred to herein as the "Parties."

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101; et seq. (the "Interlocal Cooperation Act"),
authorizes public agencies to enter into joint agreements with each other to do what each agency
is authorized by law to perform; and

WHEREAS, the City desires to complete design of certain improvements to the Sandy
Canal Trail (the “Design”) and the Township desires to provide funding to the City to assist in
completing the Design;

WHEREAS, the Township and City desire to enter into this interlocal cooperation
agreement to set forth the obligations and responsibilities of both parties in City’s completion of
the Design.

AGREEMENT:

NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties mutually agree as follows:

1. Improvement Project. The City intends to complete the Design or cause the Design to
be complete as set forth in Exhibit A of this Agreement, attached hereto and incorporated by
reference. The City hereby agrees that design work related to this Agreement will be
competitively bid in compliance with all applicable procurement rules.

2. Payment. Within sixty (60) days after receipt (as defined in section 3.1. of this
Agreement) of an invoice by the Township, the Township shall pay to the City a portion of the

1 ;

actual cost of completing the Design, in the amount of fifty percent (50%) of the bid amount. If
actual cost exceeds the bid amount, the Township shall pay fifty percent (50%) of actual costs.

3. Miscellaneous Provisions. The following provisions are also an integral part of this
Agreement:

A. Binding Agreement, This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the
benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective parties hereto. ;

B. Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the meaning,
scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or the intent thereof.

C. Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts with the
same effect as if the signatures upon any counterpart were upon the same instrument. All signed
counterparts shall be deemed to be one original.

D. Liability and Indemnification. The Parties are both governmental entities under the
"Utah Governmental Immunity Act" (Utah Code Ann. § 63~30-1, et seq.) (the "Act"). Consistent
with the terms of the Act, and as provided herein, it is mutually agreed that each party is
responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligent acts which are committed by it or by its
agents, officials, or employees. Neither party waives any defenses otherwise available under the
Act nor does any party waive any limits of liability currently provided by the Act.

E. Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should any provision
hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid
provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

F. Waiver of Breach. Any waiver by either party of any breach of any kind or character
whatsoever by the other, whether such be direct or implied, shall not be construed as a
continuing waiver of, or consent to any subsequent breach of this Agreement.

G. Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument in writing ,
signed by the parties hereto.

H. Interpretation. This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed and enforced according
to the substantive laws of the state of Utah. This Agreement is the result of arms-length
negotiations between the parties, and both City and County have had substantive input regarding
the various provisions of this Agreement. Accordingly, each of the parties affirms its desire that

this Agreement be interpreted in an absolutely neutral fashion with no regard to any rule of
interpretation (or the like) requiring that the provisions of this Agreement be construed to favor
one party (such as, for example, the party that did not draft this Agreement) over the other.

I Notice. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be deemed
sufficient if given by any communication in writing and shall be deemed to have been received
(a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within two days after such notice is

2

deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, and certified and addressed to the Parties as
set forth below:
Township: White City Metro Township
Attn: Paulina F Flint
10467 S Carnation Drive
Sandy, UT 84094
Copy To: Paul H Ashton, Esq.
Boyack Ashton LC
1237 E Lorraine Drive
Salt Lake City, UT 84106
City: Sandy City Public Utilities Director
10000 Centennial Parkway, Suite 241
Sandy, UT 84070
Copy to: Sandy City Attorney’s Office
10000 Centennial Parkway, Suite 301
Sandy, UT 84070

J. Delegation. Neither party may assign its rights or delegate its duties under this
Agreement to any other person(s) or entity(ies) without written consent of the other party.

K. Survival. All of the parties' respective representations, covenants and warranties and
obligations (including, without limitation, any obligation to indemnify) set forth herein shall
survive the Closing and the delivery of any deeds, bills of sale or the like contemplated herein.

L. Exhibits and Recitals. The recitals set forth above and all exhibits to this Agreement
are incorporated herein to the same extent as if such items were set forth herein in their entirety
within the body of this Agreement.

M. Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of the Interlocal Act,
and in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

(a) This Agreement shall be approved by each Party pursuant to Section 11-13-202.5 of
the Interlocal Act;
(b) This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with applicable
law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each Party, pursuant to
Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act;
(c) A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed with keeper of
records of each Party, pursuant to Section 11-13-209 of the Interlocal Act;
(d) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall be responsible for
its own costs of any action taken pursuant to this Agreement, and for any financing of
such costs; and

3

(e) No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement. To the extent that
this Agreement requires administration other than as set forth herein, it shall be
administered by a joint board of the public works directors of the City and the County,
or their designees. No real or personal property shall be acquired jointly by the Parties as
a result of this Agreement. To the extent that a Party acquires, holds or disposes of any
real or personal property for use in the joint or cooperative undertaking contemplated by
this Agreement, such Party shall do so in the same manner that it deals with other
property of such Party.
| N. Protection of the Scrivener. No provision of this Agreement, nor any ambiguities that
may be contained within this Agreement, shall be construed against any party on the grounds
| such Party or Party's counsel drafted the provision at issue or that the provision at issue contains
a covert, representation or warranty of such Party.
, IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have entered into this agreement on the day and year set
out at the top of this Agreement.
oe a SANDY CITY, a Utah municipal corporation
oe i ™ ‘4
oy, ¥ } S Kurt Bradburn, Mayor
my Ts NA
RATED,
A Te .
rn
Molly Spira, City Retorde
APPROVED AS TO FORM: WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP,
a Utah municipal corporation
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY | >Y _Liiduis LA hat
Paulina F. Flint, Mayor
SANDY Cl PROVALS
Deparime :
Risk Mgt.
Budget
4 Legal Form A _ 9 ——
Purchasing Compliance

ATTACHMENT
66 A 9

° Reet ivie reas . wat: See Maeore a Soe 6 fn ae Sq, oe ee a
"fees, | Proposed Bridge and | a es,
~ =» | Hfall by County Pnehets hye Pie gy $
120°C es 2 Sees ee oe. SP Ri SS steht Wl Bee de
10120°S a a BF <n. PUES en op = Eocopaee Wz TPS Bs
; en Se. Ce ee ae Ais Tle, Fae aia cn See Read Sa
| \ Go iS ome ce is a ae F sipnullate:, . o>) a taaate eee
| b> eae i = te a ae gy A age ene 5 Shae Me Bessie Sins te
| ieee A Lye ae “ib -X2"| Proposed Overflow]
* leet: 3 “Riek Yea ww, 1D aw Fae SS
| oe: , F ~ uy we Mada cla aT. cr aa i PRD 20 YR 2 Eee
| Saw Boe ee as CD, Se ae
ON er RR Sy ieee Whit ali ANON ROM OSG. tee
ee ‘ ; i Sasi! “ Spr s eel =. 3 . ’ cs, i rie 53 Ee ks Ly 6: Pg s&h > 535 Be % hee
Sate) eee ADE ei OR Gee oot a Oe
_Galnetie Br’. fa eo ie Ae i cms ee $35 GOR
Ta atte rates WE «Ae Ooo ree) Ra ea Ras Cir A OS Meats
ae : ood Cee Se i eu ae 7 ar =! Des J hb x sated Lit Me ea WA x my Es oe 4 ra
ioe Family Cir} +t him ial Sait . Verben VAVE RS 3 Pamip oy!
et SP ey eee ag oar es ci
iu ear, Nae Hix OO ) Oe Pie Oe RSS -
WI .f { ae a} $e hope ay r Rawtee | “PH wa al we i ' ‘2 4 RoW x
Ouse gel 3 By Bee a jt Se 1: elt Somes! Le
MY tee 5 AE — ¢ FEE “SNE Rcd y ~ jee. a h- + pel.- row : 2 aN ea a"
stele ae Bal be; » Neg] ris, fae We ams i: ets Ne fo Re
Pay do al 2 ee equ cc pecareay eos bal spur Dr... -..7j- = ee
oete ld | 1 eS ue ue others se ck
fe oe ae re tan Soi Proposed Trail and Drainage |
Si cet [ete ee i “| Improvements ey
<p La Maris a. Ate ga Kime 7, in Sandy Canal Corridor os
me ee en Qe ane 2 WRLC de, Sa RLS
Pico g) “eek hE ee a RAs hE NON gee OA S
aan ase Dee el! | mek EAE Lae jaaiaire : <2 aay: Co Et mea. REIN Ons
ot CPSs: See fe Ree SPREE ROE wank Oe §
pe rs ff a~ sg ) = reg Pye aT a yoy f= 3s LIMB PE {> SS as YS Ae . ==
Palli sp. r Wee eg, Tao teers Pee ode ok aa ae
7 fithy “2 Rieti = h, tal = ae tree oS ae onl ks ita * as: cas 5 oe fobs. se
gal ie a re 7 Sry eka ie fe ee ee ‘er
Se LPL ae a bo pt hast -HollyhockAve.< 8
eae I gpl Pe ee Gs ct PPE CER arate toca: cys “|
a Sal — Ne asa oY T sa igi: Ht f AUIS" pte te Reena eer ne
Tighe Stes PE. A ee ae if dneay 1 all atk 10 ey eo Sm
chil, \ lime scot ~ Weiarrnenieghana tee RAGE 1600-8: ee
Ba Se aac SL wel wee. SBE Batt fl A So 7 eee => a
fois = eT Bayley ' a
