WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 19-04-02 DATED: April 4, 2019

A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP

COUNCIL APPROVING AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION
AGREEMENT BETWEEN SANDY CITY AND WHITE CITY METRO

TOWNSHIP FOR PROPERTY CONVEYANCE OF SANDY CANAL
TRAIL AND STORMWATER IMPROVEMENTS BETWEEN DIMPLE
DELL AND 10600 SOUTH, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
RECITALS

A. The White City Metro Township (the “Metro Township”) is a Metro Township
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.

B. Sandy City is a municipality that owns the Sandy Canal (the “Canal”), which is an
irrigation canal that runs through White City.

C. Sandy desires to enter into an agreement with White City to vacate the canal
easement, and for the easement to be developed into a multi-use trail for the use of
pedestrians, cyclists, and other non-motorized uses, as well as certain stormwater
improvements.

D. White City, also desires to work with Sandy to develop the trail along the canal
easement and for the property to be deeded to White City after the trail and
stormwater improvements are developed.

E. To their mutual agreement and commitment to the goals of the trail, the attached
Agreement between White City and Sandy City, hereinafter to be known as
Exhibit “A,” has been created for consideration and possible approval.

F. White City and Sandy view the completion of the trail and stormwater
improvements as beneficial to fulfilling the public needs of both White City and
Sandy City.
RESOLUTION
THEREFORE, IT IS RESOLVED the White City Metro Township Council
hereby approves and authorizes the Mayor to sign, pending approval as to form by Metro
Township legal, the attached agreement with Sandy City, hereinafter known as Exhibit A,
to facilitate the conveyance of the trail property along the Sandy Canal between Dimple
Dell and 10600 South.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the White City Metro Township, Salt Lake
County, Utah this 4. day of April, 2019.
BY: Wee aS _—— “Z. _ pe byi “Ce ( )
Paulina F. Flint, Mayor
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
“ : ——— PAUL H. ASHTON
Sherrie Swensen METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
VOTING
Councilmember Cutler voting ANe
Councilmember Dickerson voting Ave
Mayor Flint voting AN e
Councilmember Perry voting Ate
Councilmember Price voting AAC

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Conveyance Agreement
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
between
SANDY CITY
and
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
FOR PROPERTY CONVEYANCE OF SANDY CANAL TRAIL AND STORMWATER
IMPROVEMENTS
[Between Dimple Dell and 10600 South, Salt Lake‘County, Utah]

THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT,("Agreement") is made and
entered into this day of , 2019 (the “Effective Date”), between SANDY CITY,
a municipal corporation of the State of Utah ("Sandy City"), and White City Metro Township,
a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (“White City"). Sandy Cityjand White City are
collectively referred to herein as the "Parties."

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-101, et seg. (the "Interlocal Cooperation Act"),
authorizes public agencies to enter into joint agreements with each other on a basis of mutual
advantage to provide services and facilities in a manner consistent with best geographic,
economic, population, andwother factors influencing theneeds and development of local
communities; and

WHEREAS, the Parties have worked together to design the Sandy Canal Trail, with
upgraded stormwater collectionyin theMlocation of\the Sandy Canal from Carnation Drive to
10600 SouthyySalteLake County, Utah pursuant to Interlocal Agreement, dated ,
(attachedvhereto as Exhibit "I")(the "Project") and will work together to construct the Project
pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between Sandy City and White City Metro
Township for Construction ofjSandy Canal Trail and Stormwater Improvements; and

WHEREAS, White City desires Sandy City to complete the Project and dedicate the
same to White City:following completion; and

WHEREAS, the)Parties further desire to address the conveyance and dedication of real
property by Sandy City ‘to White City throughout the course of the Sandy Canal including the
Project ("Property"), and maintenance of improvements of such Property, where such Property
lies within the boundaries of White City; and

WHEREAS, the Parties desire to enter into this interlocal cooperation agreement to set
forth the obligations and responsibilities of both Parties in future ownership and maintenance of
the Property, including the Project.

AGREEMENT:
1

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Conveyance Agreement

NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, and
provisions contained herein, the Parties mutually hereby agree as follows:

1. Project. Sandy City shall construct the Project in accordance with the Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement between Sandy City and White City Metro Township for Construction
of Sandy Canal Trail and Stormwater Improvements entered into concurrently with this
Agreement. It is understood and agreed the Project is one of three phases of the overall Sandy
Canal Trail and Storm Water improvements, as referenced in Section 2 of this Agreement, that
are being undertaken by Sandy City, Salt Lake County and White Gity.

2. Other Improvements. The Project limits are’approximately Carnation to 10600
South. In addition to the Project, other the Sandy Canal trail and stormwater improvements will
be constructed within the boundaries of White City Metro Township from approximately Dimple
Dell to 9400 South as shown in Exhibit A of this Agreement, whichis attached hereto and
incorporated herein by this reference. As shown in Exhibit A, the phases of construction,
including the Project, are referred to herein as the “Blue Phase,” “Yellow Phase,” and “Red
Phase.”

3. Conveyance. Upon completion of each phase of construction and acceptance of
the same by Sandy City, Sandy City shall transfer ownership’of the Property and improvements
to White City, as set forth in this Section.

a. SandysCity shall grant. and White City shall accept the Property in the
Yellow Phase, to be conveyed by quitclaim deed_as set forth in Exhibit B.
b. Sandy City shall grant and White City shall accept the Property in the Red
Phase, to be conveyed by quitclaim deédvas set forthiin Exhibit C.
C. Sandy City)shall grant and White City shall accept the Property in the
Blue Phase, to be conveyedyby quitclaim deed as set forth in Exhibit D.
d. The quitclaim deeds for each phase shall be executed by Sandy City and
delivered to White City upon completion of construction for that phase.

4. Ownership, Operation, and Maintenance of the Project. It is agreed by the
Parties, Sandy City willjconvey the Property to White City by phase, upon completion of trail
and/or stormwater improvements, as applicable, for that phase. White City will thereafter have
the sole responsibility for operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the Project.

5. Termination. The term of this Agreement shall be 50 years, except that if
construction of trail or stormwater improvements for the Blue Phase, Yellow Phase or Red Phase
do not commence within ten years from the date of this Agreement, this Agreement shall
terminate ten years after its effective date.

2

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Conveyance Agreement
6. Miscellaneous Provisions. The following provisions are also an integral part of
this Agreement:

(a) Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to
the benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective Parties hereto.

(b) Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference
purposes only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the
meaning, scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or the intent
thereof.

(c) Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed.in any number of counterparts
with the same effect as if the signatures upon any counterpart were upon the same instrument.
All signed counterparts shall be deemed to be one original.

(d) Liability and Indemnification’ The Parties are both governmental entities
under the "Utah Governmental Immunity Act" (Utah Code Ann. § 63-30-1, etyseq.) (the "Act").
Consistent with the terms of the Act, and as provided herein, itis)mutually agreedithat each Party
is responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligentyacts which are committed by it or by
its agents, officials, or employees. Neither Party waives any defenses otherwise available under
the Act nor does any Party waive any limits ofjliability currently provided by the Act.

(e) Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should any
provision hereof be deemed»yoid, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable,
unenforceable or invalid provision, shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement, and
those other provision’shall remain in\full force and effect.

(f) Waiver of Breach. Any.waiver by either Party of any breach of any kind or
character whatsoever by the other Party, whether such breach be direct or implied, shall not be
construed/as a continuing waiver of, or consent to any subsequent breach of this Agreement.

(g) Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument in
writing signed, by the Parties hereto.

(h) Interpretation. This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed and enforced
according to the substantive laws of the State of Utah. This Agreement is the result of arms-
length negotiations between the Parties, and both Sandy City and White City have had
substantive input regarding the various provisions of this Agreement. Accordingly, each of the
Parties affirms its desire that this Agreement be interpreted in an absolutely neutral fashion with
no regard to any rule of interpretation (or the like) requiring that the provisions of this
Agreement be construed to favor of the non-drafting Party.

(i) Notice. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be
deemed sufficient if given by any communication in writing and shall be deemed to have been
received (a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within three (3) days after

3

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Conveyance Agreement
such notice is deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, and certified and addressed
to the Parties as set forth below:
Township: White City Metro Township
Attn: Paulina F Flint
10467 S Carnation Drive
Sandy, UT 84094
Copy To: Paul H Ashton, Esq.
Boyack Ashton LC
1237 E Lorraine Drive
Salt Lake City, UT 84106
City: Sandy City Public Utilities Director
10000 Centennial Parkway, Suite 241
Sandy, UT 84070
Copy to: Sandy City Attomey’s Office
10000 Centennial Parkway, Suite 301
Sandy, UT 84070

(j) Assignment. Neither Party maysassign its rights or delegate its duties under
this Agreement to any other person(s) or éntity(ies) Without prior written consent of the other
Party.

(k) Survival. All of the Parties’ respective representations, covenants, warranties,
and obligations including)without limitation, any obligation to indemnify, set forth herein shall
survive the Termination of this Agreement.

(I) Exhibits and Recitals. The recitals set forth above and all exhibits to this
Agreement are incorporated herein to, the same extent as if such items were set forth herein in
their entirety within the body of this Agreement.

(m) Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, and in connection with this Agreement, the Parties hereby agree as
follows:

(i) »This Agreement shall be approved by each Party pursuant to Section
11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act;

(ii) This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance
with applicable law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each Party, pursuant to Section
11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act;

(iii) A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed
with the keeper of records of each Party, pursuant to Section 11-13-209 of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act;

4

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Conveyance Agreement

(iv) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall be
responsible for its own costs of any action taken pursuant to this Agreement, and for any
financing of such costs; and

(v) No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement. To
the extent that this Agreement requires administration other than as set forth herein, it shall be
administered by a joint board of the representatives for both White City and Sandy City, or their
designees. No real or personal property shall be acquired jointly by the Parties as a result of this
Agreement. To the extent that a Party acquires, holds or disposes of any real or personal property
for use in the joint or cooperative undertaking contemplated by thi8»Agreement, such Party shall
do so in the same manner that it deals with other property of such Party.

(n) Protection of the Scrivener. No provision of this Agreement, nor any
ambiguities that may be contained within this Agreement, shall be construed against any Party
on the grounds that such Party or Party's counsel! drafted the provision at issue or that the
provision at issue contains a covert, representation or warranty of such Partys

(0) Agency. No agent, employee or Servant of the Sandy City, \White City, or
MSD is or shall be deemed to be an employee, agent, orservant of the other Party. None of the
benefits provided by each party toy its,employees including, but not limited to, worker’s
compensation insurance, health insurance, and unemployment insurance, are available to the
employees, agents, or servants of the other party.\Sandy City, White City, and MSD shall each
be solely and entirely responsible for its own acts and for the acts Of its own agents, employees,
and servants during the performance of this Agreement. Sandy City acts as an independent
contractor, and is not an‘employeeior agent of White City in the performance of this Agreement.

(p) Foree\Majure. No party shallbe liable for any excess costs if the failure to
perform arises from causes beyond thé)eontrol and without the fault or negligence of that part,
including butnotlimited to acts of God, fires, floods, strikes, or unusually severe weather. If
such condition continues for a period in excess’of 60 days, any party shall have the right to
terminate this Agreement without liability or penalty effective upon written notice to the other
party. |

(q) No Obligatin to Third Parties. The Parties agree that the Parties’ obligations
under this Agreement are solely to each other: This Agreement shall not confer any rights to
third parties.

(r) Governing Law. The laws of the State of Utah govern all matters arising out
of this Agreement.

(s) Ethical Standards. The Parties each represent that it has not: (a) provided an
illegal gift or payoff to any officer or employee, or former officer or employee, or to any relative
or business entity of an officer or employee, or relative or business entity of a former officer or
employee of the other party; (b) retained any person to solicit or secure this Agreement upon an
agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, other
than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies established for the purpose of

5

04-01-2019 Sandy Canal Conveyance Agreement
securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical standards set forth in State statutes or either
Parties’ ordinances, rules of regulations; or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promises that it
will not knowingly influence, any officer or employee or former officer or employee of the other
to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in Parties' ordinances, rules of regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto enter into this Agreement as of the date
first written above.
SANDY CITY
By:
Mayor Kurt Bradburn
Date:
Attest:
By
Molly Spira, Sandy City Recorder
Approved as to Legal Form:
By:
Sandy City Attorney
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP,
a Utah municipal corporation
By
Mayor Paulina F. Flint
Approved as to Legal Form:
By
White City Attorney
6

— 8 > 4 it
are ae ee Exhibit - Phases of Sandy ‘to White City US ae
Sieh Sei TH . oo = oe ere, a '
fe, =F |_Transfer from Sandy City blll ae Gon

on Pooh) see st Songs “Pleats RO a = == $0" = : s Se) Bs
Se - ; j= , 5334 Bil a = » ace: +, = A a
e ¥ Bet A Reiss on Pisa et hi ate & Seger —) ne | mix ene Se “Fe = < fier ee - Wea) hehe |
Se ee eee a ee ass Sieh fs Be ie Tia
eae ee oe ibe Sr aS Ran gly dy Cityto We Se es ee ae
eee A Reade SL a éy Sandy ent Samal A Fe Pee
(pa Naot ‘a ae, a 9630S» ah ee elain pace = Pv \ ear ae ries pee
‘ ‘ 7 os ee Fae Py SS . Ta i { f Res : se c
eee Be IR RW te ome wa a) ee le 8 Sa ee
Pe oa RE he ae ene AS: ee 1 | et hear sume Iiy =
NERS P| aM eS ree oy ee
Saye eer, | ca es ene Se i. eats
BE TS IS age aah oe! ae wear vee | i> <—. Peer
a, 6 fz eet ze er ~-_™ a Wy tA S
ioe al | i 7 f = fhe pa ees: ban a eli og nS aA
Be iz iy Teak XN os S leg 2 as Se = wi t” ae) sane lineshape ass ae '
iad PS rs x i oes a | “i Jat Se eee oe ~ ee: ti pe | ED, oS eh
ba = ~ RA ong a Fore ae it Aa | { oh hs eo a oat
ot eit a) re Bo Ne y eS + a) 0 We BR Fan! dts, A ibe 2
Ec NS Ae on P80” PKS ame he tit, een tite 3
eorse sey Ta Wenner a ate. Cee die ak; Sees VM Peale tir ue
“oS axa eae 6 go Poe al AWA Ae fie as SAS Car Ae s& ho ice roe
be Akay teehee: ae A ae ig ae ane a ie Ra a
Ase | fetta, gem te eG BER SR yay, ae RC SOP Cok Caverns Ko)
ie vanes 2090'S 8 bere eo gaa ee 9D (OR ee a he ms ees ne Min een
sr ig Rts Sys Sia ere sinh Bi fF % aise Sa oes ha be SUR ay “es
h - res, “- et S, :  % eee) . es Wey . Fa i NS any
, Ze se 5 shay os ae SP RANK ee Sie Oe |
*% Bd f ae ak Ces ene Pagar See ere Nod ie Be SNE, he eae
1 10120S$ ~~ 3 , eS oe LE Posey AY < 0 ene
ee TA Se * SO IRS Ea Be eye. Mo pees
aga ww Fy She “5 eh > Pak <b st GaP ot = wire
es) ere epee La Soe RK Ae tn Cree
_. | 1) pe wee Seen ane. eyes ta
i e a canes. Hee we - Re ES, ALS Wan Us a y Sek ten FREE =F
ig Tt SLR EE ee SE tale af PO Py es Sa ESS SP e We BT Sy
ey ae ae eure TR x eee oR, ee PE es, 2 Cir * Vis
aioe ; Cit cal i saa af ak ha = sHibiscus Ave 6 AWE. * > A is pm $e NPs
die =.65T Ci ad ie ae a ae pi! SSS S = 1 a pth),
aig tee pti) t Ghee CPS wear ATE ee epee .
ae ae 1 72 i) ee ane ee a a er ae = ed. Whe 8 e = Dy Gt th
10, 75S eee © Ty CP ig iy ME Sar he Fa ie Sale sae a Cite ey a. Was Hf
SEN Tl came tema ate tenet YS a is ae OF nase a eae “hes S05) ees
Sacer Nae Rs bs Sea a re rae ee BG eRe. a :
Seba te oe 8: Sa Mie slaty itperondhae PRS ar Ae A Pn Fee a3 <2 toe —gdlee a 4
weal ns a, PS eek SIT a tr wy aS [oa a5 Seens 4 é wy A‘ (ey yy
Pa kSt fe Pee ek aah = Sh dsp jao Bre eae * a a es are sat tie i Tas
f Fe NT ab ‘ Yee <3 ss anal pes ee ie SE we re Heather Cit sein on.» gwv'Ol aw ~f ta
(> ee a oe Pn rn eet Kee | —
P= Mico Gn | aw) = Be 8

RESOLUTION NO.: 18-04-02 DATE: __ 04-05-2018
A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL APPROVING
AND ADOPTING AN INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN WHITE CITY AND
SANDY CITY FOR THE DESIGN OF THE WHITE CITY-SANDY CANAL TRAIL
RECITALS
A. The White City Metro Township (“White City”) is a Metro Township pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated (“UCA”) §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.
B. The White City Metro Township Council (“Council”) is a Metro Township Council pursuant
to UCA §§ 10-3b-501 ef al. ,
C. Sandy City (“Sandy”) is a City and neighboring municipality to White City.
D. Sandy and White City desire to promote the development of a trial along the confluence of
the decommissioned Sandy Canal.
E. Asa part of the development of the trail, a design of the trail is needed to determine trail
aesthetics and the overall costs to construct.
F. Partnering with Sandy via an interlocal agreement allows White City and Sandy to more
effectively and efficiently achieve work towards the common goal of constructing the trail.
RESOLUTION
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the White City Metro Township Council, the |
Council approves and adopts the attached Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between White City
and Sandy City for the design of the White City-Sandy Canal Trail, hereinafter to be known as
Attachment “A” to this resolution, for the mutual benefit of White City and Sandy.
APPROVED and ADOPTED in the White City Metro Township, Salt Lake County, State of
Utah on this S Day of IP \\ ,LO\G_. ,
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
Fava FL bat
Paulina F. Flint, Mayor

Gi j- g APPROVED AS TO FORM:

SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK

METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER | METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
| Voting:

Councilmember Cutler voting Ae
| Councilmember Dickerson voting 0 _ )
| Councilmember Flint voting he

Councilmember Perry voting me
| Councilmember Price voting Ae
|
|

RESOLUTION #18-21 C

A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF AN INTERLOCAL

COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN WHITE CITY AND SANDY

CITY RELATING TO THE DESIGN OF SANDY CANAL TRAIL

|

BEIT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED that the City Council of Sandy City, State of
Utah, finds and determines as follows:

WHEREAS, Title 11, Chapter 13, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, pennits:
public agencies to enter into cooperative agreements to provide joint undertakings and services;
and

WHEREAS, the City desires to complete design of certain improvements to the Sandy
Canal Trail (“Design”) and the Township agrees to provide funding to the City to assist in
completing the Design; and

WHEREAS, the Township and City desire set the obligations and responsibilities of both
parties in City’s completion of the Design; and

WHEREAS, it has been determined that the best interests of the City and the general
public will be served by the execution of the attached Interlocal Cooperation Agreement and by
participating as required therein; and

WHEREAS, the attached agreement has been prepared to accomplish such purpose.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of Sandy City, Utah:

1. It does hereby approve the attached agreement described as an interlocal
agreement between White City and Sandy City relating to the design of Sandy Canal Trail.

2. The Hon. Kurt Bradbum, Mayor of Sandy City, is hereby authorized to execute
the agreement on behalf of Sandy City Corporation and to act in accordance with its terms.

DATED this {[& day of Nay , 2018.

| 4 Witte Sell
da/Martinez Savill¢, Chair
Sandy City Council “

| ATTEST: :

ie . |

City Recorder
RECORDED a Lived 2018, |
| pY.ci7y |
| Op gi
Zh ?*
*.. Bay
Pp **recsssest” NO
; “OR ATED :

INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
Between
SANDY CITY
And
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
FOR DESIGN OF SANDY CANAL TRAIL
gs pm iainese SER

THIS rien meee COOPERATION AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made and
entered into this.’ ay of ae , 2018, between WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP,
a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (hereafter "Township", and the SANDY CITY, a
municipal corporation of the State of Utah ("City"). The Township and City are collectively
referred to herein as the "Parties."

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101; et seq. (the "Interlocal Cooperation Act"),
authorizes public agencies to enter into joint agreements with each other to do what each agency
is authorized by law to perform; and

WHEREAS, the City desires to complete design of certain improvements to the Sandy
Canal Trail (the “Design”) and the Township desires to provide funding to the City to assist in
completing the Design;

WHEREAS, the Township and City desire to enter into this interlocal cooperation
agreement to set forth the obligations and responsibilities of both parties in City’s completion of
the Design.

AGREEMENT:

NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties mutually agree as follows:

1. Improvement Project. The City intends to complete the Design or cause the Design to
be complete as set forth in Exhibit A of this Agreement, attached hereto and incorporated by
reference. The City hereby agrees that design work related to this Agreement will be
competitively bid in compliance with all applicable procurement rules.

2. Payment. Within sixty (60) days after receipt (as defined in section 3.1. of this
Agreement) of an invoice by the Township, the Township shall pay to the City a portion of the

1 .

actual cost of completing the Design, in the amount of fifty percent (50%) of the bid amount. If
actual cost exceeds the bid amount, the Township shall pay fifty percent (50%) of actual costs.

3. Miscellaneous Provisions. The following provisions are also an integral part of this
Agreement:

A. Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the
benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective parties hereto.

B. Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the meaning,
scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or the intent thereof.

C. Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts with the
same effect as if the signatures upon any counterpart were upon the same instrument. All signed
counterparts shall be deemed to be one original.

D. Liability and Indemnification. The Parties are both governmental entities under the
"Utah Governmental Immunity Act" (Utah Code Ann. § 63~30-1, et seq.) (the "Act"), Consistent
with the terms of the Act, and as provided herein, it is mutually agreed that each party is
responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligent acts which are committed by it or by its
agents, officials, or employees. Neither party waives any defenses otherwise available under the
Act nor does any party waive any limits of liability currently provided by the Act.

E. Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should any provision
hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid
provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

F. Waiver of Breach. Any waiver by either party of any breach of any kind or character
whatsoever by the other, whether such be direct or implied, shall not be construed as a
continuing waiver of, or consent to any subsequent breach of this Agreement.

G. Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument in writing
signed by the parties hereto.

H. Interpretation. This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed and enforced according
to the substantive laws of the state of Utah. This Agreement is the result of arms-length
negotiations between the parties, and both City and County have had substantive input regarding
the various provisions of this Agreement. Accordingly, each of the parties affirms its desire that
this Agreement be interpreted in an absolutely neutral fashion with no regard to any rule of
interpretation (or the like) requiring that the provisions of this Agreement be construed to favor
one party (such as, for example, the party that did not draft this Agreement) over the other.

I. Notice. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be deemed
sufficient if given by any communication in writing and shall be deemed to have been received
(a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within two days after such notice is

2

deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, and certified and addressed to the Parties as
set forth below:
Township: White City Metro Township
Attn: Paulina F Flint -
10467 S Carnation Drive
Sandy, UT 84094
Copy To: Paul H Ashton, Esq.
Boyack Ashton LC
1237 E Lorraine Drive
Salt Lake City, UT 84106
City: Sandy City Public Utilities Director
10000 Centennial Parkway, Suite 241
Sandy, UT 84070
Copy to: Sandy City Attorney’s Office
10000 Centennial Parkway, Suite 301
Sandy, UT 84070

J. Delegation. Neither party may assign its rights or delegate its duties under this
Agreement to any other person(s) or entity(ies) without written consent of the other party.

K. Survival. All of the parties' respective representations, covenants and warranties and
obligations (including, without limitation, any obligation to indemnify) set forth herein shall
survive the Closing and the delivery of any deeds, bills of sale or the like contemplated herein.

L. Exhibits and Recitals. The recitals set forth above and all exhibits to this Agreement
are incorporated herein to the same extent as if such items were set forth herein in their entirety
within the body of this Agreement.

M. Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of the Interlocal Act,
and in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

(a) This Agreement shall be approved by each Party pursuant to Section 11-13-202.5 of
the Interlocal Act;
(b) This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with applicable
law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each Party, pursuant to
Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act;
(c) A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed with keeper of
records of each Party, pursuant to Section 11-13-209 of the Interlocal Act;
(d) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall be responsible for
its own costs of any action taken pursuant to this Agreement, and for any financing of
such costs; and

3

(e) No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement. To the extent that
this Agreement requires administration other than as set forth herein, it shall be
administered by a joint board of the public works directors of the City and the County,
or their designees. No real or personal property shall be acquired jointly by the Parties as
a result of this Agreement. To the extent that a Party acquires, holds or disposes of any
real or personal property for use in the joint or cooperative undertaking contemplated by
this Agreement, such Party shall do so in the same manner that it deals with other
property of such Party.

N. Protection of the Scrivener. No provision of this Agreement, nor any ambiguities that
may be contained within this Agreement, shall be construed against any party on the grounds
such Party or Party's counsel drafted the provision at issue or that the provision at issue contains
a covert, representation or warranty of such Party.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have entered into this agreement on the day and year set

out at the top of this Agreement.

f yy Cl; os
et cD SANDY CITY, a Utah municipal corporation
ran ‘a } KS ; Kurt Bradburn, Mayor
RATES
ATFRST: C > 7
Ce
. At f A, ) re
Molly Spira, Ci y) Re pordey
APPROVED AS TO FORM: WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP,
a Utah municipal corporation
METRO iMag AtrorNeEy | BY —Tiolin 2 Mag
Paulina F. Flint, Mayor
SANDY Cl PROVALS
Departmen(_74
Risk Mgt.
Budget
4 Legal Form a. ae

Purchasing Gompliance

ATTACHMENT
6G A”

| Trail by County FN SR ee EMS Uns rk Se
TOIZO Ss pe Ee NE oe eerie gear yp as Fae
| ) gens: aie Seti eae oe eT erie Aer see), a
| th ees te igs “§ -X2| Proposed Overflow}
ieee Eos 1 Roa SF Chat os eer De ) OAs p ae SS

| oe etc 2 Peeler] A wie Ps to Dimple Dell Se
<> -ub Hite SAE Ae ae ey Fe 4 ) SN oe ee

be # an “igen rte sc ere a Gre « ROSE Foe OS
PC gs | RAP ier ee he ake ree OLAS DG
Sites: De acaeece Bs ae Re Aa a Ts nd a Bg ZC ORR ASS
_ Gainette br 4 fa Se) Sem pe IOL TB Rely Nie
see Ouers | aes eer eee Cw a i oe io Cir Say Se Sao
: ae a Wag Zin ; a = ve —- zs = > - om 7 . - 8 prin 7 ; es ay ‘ f ghee y ~~ = WHA, ’ . DRE val
Po Sram . ir #8 3 ‘ ut! 1S Be ide are a hake P beat oe 4 om gat 2 eS Baty By ~ 4 fe
ee are Pete A ee ais ne ee ben aes ety) 5 ‘a he <4
inser eit 14! Es gaat Sem Po eee OO Wie
iota’ eet | Psp Eee mane Tibiscus Ave GT =
Aenea i eS Cal SAS Be ic ee a es
RGSS San Mose) fa a te fa Oa : Sate, TON Be
Swing SS. ils pS ae Nese) Clay fee a 7.0... | ever acy
ato Rae a] 2 ll Oe. Ur ease Te ARS pg Sy = Lar Spur Drag. oa
ey eT ee tT al OP ge Saeed ae Pee ee SL te
imaatecl renal Ge ar FA urs_| Proposed Trail and Drainage}
eo. ok he pe + “nt aa UY “ke - awe 77 : = 3)
re ae pee ee GS ) Improvements wo
Tce} Ht. AN Fall the Se oh Reees vet }- ng arn 3 aA . . _f =
prank” (eee amelie 7. {in Sandy Canal Corridor ea
aS eee, be ) Sammi as be pm Boe A NS i
Me yl ke, PRT, RR See Se, RN Og
Pail el mes ot een aie OP) + —-DalSyiAVE =o At 5) A a eee
BS) Wy'| Om cae es SO) SE Ease fae pe OO RR ai aS
aR Re lo pote er te koa
ie eee AL a ees Teor , _ Hollyhock Ave. =. = ee tee Sen
Rel ee aero, Ae wt it Mee ae dep tet 3h a Sag epee 7G py ree
Pye ee a A es ee Cae a fee eee a NE
CSS Ter RS & or eee ==) EXHIBIT A
