WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 19-12-03 DATE: December 5, 2019
A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL APPROVING AND
ADOPTING AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN THE
| WHITE CITY WATER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT AND THE WHITE CITY METRO
| TOWNSHIP COUNCIL FOR THE USE OF THE “CodeRED” EMERGENCY
COMMUNICATIONS PLATFORM
RECITALS

A. The White City Metro Township (“White City” or the “Municipality”) is a

municipality pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§10-2a-401 et seq.

B. The White City Water Improvement District (the “District”) is a Local

District Pursuant to Utah Code §§ 17B-1-101 et seq.

C. The District has subscribed to use the CodeRED emergency alert system and

communications platform (the “Platform”) to notify water users in the event of an

emergency or delivery issue regarding their water service.

D. The platform would also allow the municipality to communicate with

residents regarding municipal emergencies and other community issues.

E. The Municipality and the District can share the use and costs of the

platform via an interlocal cooperation agreement pursuant to Utah Code § 11-13-

203 et al.

RESOLUTION

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, by the White City Metro
Township Council:

The White City Metro Township Council approves. and authorizes the Mayor to sign,
Attachment “A” — An Interlocal Cooperation Agreement by and between the White City Water
Improvement District and the White City Metro Township for the shared use of the “CodeRED”
Communications Platform for the Dissemination of both Emergency and Community
Information to White City.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in White City, Salt Lake County, Utah this S day
of December, 2019.

FOR THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP:

PAULINA F. FLINT, MAYOR

ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
SHERRIE SWENSEN DD ites oe
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK PAUL H. ASHTON
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING
COUNCILMEMBER CUTLER PAG
COUNCILMEMBER DICKERSON Pe
MAYOR FLINT Ate
COUNCILMEMBER PERRY Ate
COUNCILMEMBER PRICE ANC

ATTACHMENT “A”

AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT BY
AND BETWEEN THE WHITE CITY WATER
IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT AND THE WHITE CITY
METRO TOWNSHIP FOR THE SHARED USE OF THE
“CodeRED” COMMUNICATIONS PLATFORM FOR THE
DISSEMINATION OF BOTH EMERGENCY AND
COMMUNITY INFORMATION TO WHITE CITY

THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) is
entered into this 5th day of December, 2019 by and between the WHITE CITY
WATER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT, a Local District pursuant to Utah State Law
(the "District”), and the WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP, a Municipality
pursuant to Utah State Law (the “Municipality”). The District and the Municipality
may collectively be referred to hereinafter as the “Parties” or individually as a “Party.”

RECITALS:

A. After numerous discussions between the District and the Municipality
regarding the contracting of Onsolve LLC to provide the CodeRED emergency and
community information platform, it was decided by the parties the District would
take the lead on securing the contract.

B. The District contracted with Onsolve LLC in September 2019.

C. It benefits the Municipality to enter into an agreement with the
District to share costs and use of CodeRED.

D. The District and Municipality are “public agencies” as defined by the
Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 11-13-101 et seq. (the “Interlocal
Act”), and, as such, are authorized by Act and the Interlocal Act to enter into this
Agreement.

AGREEMENT:
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual representations,
Page 1 of 6

covenants, and agreements contained herein, the sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1—~SHARED SERVICE AGREEMENT AND
REIMBURSEMENT

1.1. Shared Service. The District agrees to allow the Municipality to use the
CodeRED platform pursuant to the rules stated in the End User Agreement (Exhibit
A)

1.2. Shared Cost for Service. As agreed by the Parties, the Municipality shall
reimburse the District $2,500.00 per annum toward the cost of the contract signed by
the District and Onsolve, LLC for use of the CodeRED platform.

ARTICLE 2 — GENERAL PROVISIONS
a) Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of the
Interlocal Act in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

(a) | This Agreement shall be authorized by a resolution of the
legislative body of each Party pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions
of Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act.

(b) This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and
compliance with applicable law by a duly authorized attorney in behalf of each
Party pursuant to and in accordance with Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal
Act.

(c) A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be
filed immediately with the keeper of records of each Party pursuant to
Section 11-13-209 of the Interlocal Act.

(d) The term of this Agreement, including any extensions, shall not
exceed fifty (50) years pursuant to Section 11-13-216 of the Interlocal Act.

(ec) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party
shall be responsible for its own costs of any action done pursuant to this

Page 2 of 6

Agreement, and for any financing of such costs.

(f) No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement
and no facility or improvement will be jointly acquired, jointly owned, or
jointly operated by the Parties under this Agreement.

(g) To the extent this Agreement requires administration other than
as set forth herein, it shall be administered by the chief administrative officer
of each Party pursuant to Section 11-13-207 of the Interlocal Act.

b) Publication of Notice. The District may cause to be published a notice
regarding this Agreement and the Parties’ resolutions authorizing this Agreement, as
provided and allowed pursuant to Section 11-13-219 of the Interlocal Act. The
Municipality agrees that the District may cause such publication of notice to be made on
the Municipality’s behalf and at the District’s expense, in a joint publication.

c) Governmental Immunity, Liability, and Indemnification.

(a) | Governmental Immunity. Both Parties are governmental entities
under the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, §§ 63G-7-101 et seg. (the
“Immunity Act”). Neither Party waives any defenses or limits of liability
available under the Immunity Act and other applicable law. Both Parties
maintain all privileges, immunities, and other rights granted by the Immunity
Act and all other applicable law.

(b) Liability and Indemnification. The Parties agree to be liable for
their own negligent acts or omissions, or those of their authorized employees,
officers, and agents while engaged in the performance of the obligations under
this Agreement, and neither Party will have any liability whatsoever for any
negligent act or omission of the other Party, its employees, officers, or agents.
The Parties agree that the requirements of this Paragraph will survive the
expiration or sooner termination of this Agreement.

d) Modification and Amendment. This Agreement may be amended,
enlarged, modified or altered only by an instrument in writing. The modification or
amendment will become effective immediately upon the completion of the following: (i)
the approval of the amendment by the governing bodies of the Parties, including the

Page 3 of 6

adoption of any necessary resolutions or ordinances authorizing the execution of the
amendment by the appropriate person or persons for the Parties, (ii) the execution of the
amendment by a duly authorized official of each of the Parties, (iii) the submission of the
amendment to an attorney for each Party that is authorized to represent said Party for
review as to proper form and compliance with applicable law, pursuant to Section 11-13-
202.5 of the Interlocal Act, and the approval of each respective attorney, (iv) the filing of
a copy of the amendment with the keeper of records of each Party, and (v) if approved by
the District, the publication of a summary of the amendment.

e) Further Documents and Acts. Each of the Parties hereto agrees to
cooperate in good faith with the other to execute and deliver such further documents and
perform such other acts as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to consummate
and carry into effect the intent and transactions contemplated under this Agreement.

f) Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the exhibits attached hereto
constitute the entire agreement between the Parties pertaining to the subject matter hereof,
and all prior agreements, representations, negotiations and understandings of the Parties
hereto, oral or written, express or implied, are hereby superseded by this Agreement. This
Agreement may not be enlarged, modified or altered, except in writing, signed by the
Parties as explained in Section

7.7 above.

g) No Waiver. The failure of either Party at any time to require performance
of any provision or to resort to any remedy provided under this Agreement will in no way
affect the right of that Party to require performance or to resort to a remedy at any time
thereafter. Additionally, the waiver of any breach of this Agreement by either Party will
not constitute a waiver as to any future breach, and no extension of time for performance
of any obligation or act shall be deemed an extension of the time for performance of any
other obligation or act.

h) No Obligations to Third Parties. The Parties agree that the Parties’
obligations under this Agreement are solely to the other Party. The Parties do not intend to
confer any rights to third parties unless otherwise expressly provided for under this
Agreement.

i) Agency. No officer, employee, or agent of one Party is intended to be an
officer, employee, or agent of the other Party. None of the benefits provided by one
Page 4 of 6

Party to its employees including, but not limited to, workers’ compensation insurance,
health insurance and unemployment insurance, are available to the officers,
employees, or agents of the other Party. The Parties will each be solely and entirely
responsible for its acts and for the acts of its officers, employees, or agents during the
performance of this Agreement.

i) Assignment. No Party may assign its rights, duties or obligations
under this Agreement without obtaining prior written consent from the other Party.

k) Governing Law and Venue. The laws of the State of Utah govern all
matters arising out of this Agreement. Venue for any and all legal actions arising
hereunder will lie in the District Court in and for the County of Salt Lake, State of Utah.

9) Severability. If any provision of this Agreement and any related
document shall be held invalid or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction
or as a result of future legislative action, and if the rights or obligations of any Party
hereto under this Agreement will not be materially and adversely affected thereby, the
Parties agree that:

(a) such provision will be fully severable;

(b) this Agreement will be construed and enforced as if such
provision had never comprised a part hereof;

(c) the remaining provisions of this Agreement and related
documents will remain in full force and effect and will not be affected by the
invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance from this Agreement;

(d) in lieu of such illegal, invalid, or unenforceable provision, the
Parties hereto will use commercially reasonable efforts to negotiate in good
faith a substitute, legal, valid, and enforceable provision that most nearly
effects the Parties’ intent in entering into this Agreement; and

(e) such holding or action will be strictly construed.

m) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and all so

executed will constitute one agreement binding on all the Parties, it being

understood that all parties need not sign the same counterpart. Further, executed
copies of this Agreement delivered by facsimile or email will be deemed an original
Page 5 of 6

signed copy of this Agreement.
Each Party hereby signs this Interlocal Cooperation Agreement on the date

written by each Party on the signature pages attached hereto.
WHITE CITY WATER
IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT:

Kalu. 1. phaugs

By _{\MA/ i . ALA UN am
WHITE CITY MET (|
TOWNSHIP:

Approved as to Form and Legality:

n»_[Brft le

Attorney for the Municipality
Page 6 of 6

Exhibit A

; SERVICE AGREEMENT
CodeRED®
This Service Agreement (ihe “Agreement’) by and between Provider (as defined below) and Customer (as defined below) is made as of the last date
signed on Exhibit B {the "Effective Date")
SERVICE ORDER
Provider Information: Provider Name: ONSOLVE, LLC
(“Provider") Entity Type: Limited Liability Company
State of Incorporation: Delaware
Provider Address: 780 W. Granada Boulevard
——————— ee Ormond Beach, FL 32174
Customer Information: Customer Name: White City Water Improvement District
(“Customer”) Entity Type: olith
State of Incorporation: Utah
Customer Address: 999 East Galena Drive
White City, UT 84094
Business Contact/Title: Paulina FlinUChair
Phone: (801) 571-5257
Email: pbflint@yahoo.com
Please complete below if the Primary User is differant from the Business Contact
Primary User Name: Paul Ashton/General Manager
Phone: (801) 558-8043
Emall: paulashton@wewid,org
Unless otherwise specified on a Customer purchase order or below, Provider will send invoices to the Customer Business Contact
address above.
City, State, Zip:
Email:
Preferred method of receiving invoices:[JEmaiif]USMal ™~—“—SSSCCS
DETAILED SERVICE DESCRIPTION
Initlal Term (commencing on Effective Date) Five (5) Years
Renewal Term(s) Five (5) Years
CodeRED On-Demand Notification Service - Unlimited
Annual Notification Subscription Fee: $8,000.00
Initial Term Cost for Notification Service: $40,000.00
Additional Features
Commercially Available Data Included
One (1) annual Provider-assisted traditional import for Customer data Included
Annual CodeRED Weather Waming® Subscription Fee: included
Annual Cost for all Additional Features: Included
Initial Term Cost for all Additionat Features: Included
Annual Subtotal: $8,000.00
Initial Term Subtotal: $40,000.00
May be paid in installments:
Year1 $8,000.00
Year2 $8,000.00
Year3 $8,000.00
Year4 $8,000.00
YearS $8,000.00
ONSOLVE, LLC Page 1 of 4
CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY
June 2018 Form

$e
All amounts are stated in United States Dotiars unless specifically indicated otherwise
e GIS (Target Recipients by Geographic Location): the coverage area of Customer as of the Effective Date (the “Notification Area") Customer
shail be required to provide a custom shape file ar work with Provider to draw the proper mapping boundaries to define the Nolification Area,
and, notwithstanding the Effective Date, the provision of the Notification Services hereunder shall not commence until this has been completed.
« Up to 16,999 Recipients. A deviation gbove 10% in the number of Recipients shall result in Increased pricing at Provider's then-current rates.
» Annual Notification Subscription Fee includes Uniimited Message Units per year for Notifications sent via phone, SMS text or email
¢ Provider reserves the right to increase the fees for any Renewal Term in an amount not to exceed five percent (5%) of the prior Initial Term or
Renewal Term (as applicable).
ATTACHMENTS: ExHisit A- GENERAL SERVICE DESCRIPTION, EXHIBIT B— TERMS AND Conoimons, ExHipit C — ACCEPTABLE USE PoLicy
ONSOLVE, LLC WHITE CITY WATER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT, UTAH
"oA >
Sf 4
Signed: F => Aoyont Signed: 4
Printed Name:__Troy Harper Printed Name: a . ;
'
Title__General Manager, Public Sector tie Chase Gon raal of Trustee
Date:___ 08/22/2019 Date: 4 - 2/- 26] q
ONSOLVE, LLC Pago 2 of 4
CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY
dune 2018 Form

EXHIBIT A
GENERAL SERVICE DESCRIPTION — CODERED®

Description of On-Demand Notification Service: The Service is an on-demand alerting and response software-as-a-service (SaaS) for the

Notification Area. Use of the Service is by subscription and does not require Customer to purchase, install or maintain any dedicated hardware

or software. The Service allows any Iniliator to send a Single alert to thousands of Contacts simultaneously via a combination of femiliar

communication devices including the ability to capture real-time responses.

Customer can access and activate the Service using any of the following methods:

« Web. log in 24/7/365 at hitps:/www.onsolve.com/login/ to send alerts or to modify your account.
« Phone: call (866) 939-0911 for live operator assistance 24/7/365,
Description of Service. With subscription, Customer receives:
¢ Up to the number of Message Units stipulated on Service Order of the Agreement, which can be used as described on the
Service Order and in Exhibit B.
¢ Unlimited messaging via email and to the CodeRED Mobile Alert App.

@ “Message Unit" means:

o Sixty (60) seconds or less of connected call time in the Service. As an example, a call connected for ninety (90) seconds shall be
equal to two (2) Message Units

o SMS massages that are 140 characters in length. SMS messages over 140 characters in length are separated into multiple Message
Units.

« Transaction Fee (as defined on Exhibit B) for unlimited Service (for refund purposes only, where applicable) is equal to $0.09,
Transaction Fee for Message Unit-based Service is equal to the Overage Message Unit price set forth on the Service Order

* — Unlimited Initiators (those with role-based ability to access and activate the Service).

* Unlimited groups within accounts: A group is an alert distribution list.

* Standard upgrades. Standard upgrades include all maintenance releases.

* For optional features purchased (e.g. Conference Bridge, Bulletin Board) up to the number of Message Units stipulated on Service Order
of the Agreement.

* Absent separate purchase of Commercially Available Data from Provider, Customer is responsible to provide data for Use in the Service,
and Provider shall not be responsible for Customer's inability to use the Service due to Customer's delay in providing data.

* Customer may purchase professional services (‘Professional Services"), such as installations, implementations, software testing, custom
modifications, data services or international training sessions from Provider. Professional Services will be described in a separate
statement of work.

Contact List Maintenance. Provider provides multiple ways for Customer to enter and maintain the Contact list at no additional charge:

* Community Notification Enrolment (“CNE") Page (public self-registration): Contacts may sign up on the CNE Page and enroliment
information will be transferred to Customer. Customer acknowledges and agrees that Provider may notify such individuals that their data
will be transmitted to Customer, and that the transmission of such data to Custamer may render it public record and is subject to Customer's
privacy policies. Customer agrees that it will be solely responsible for providing such privacy policies to these individuals and that Provider
shall not be responsibie for the individual contribution of contact information through the CNE page,

¢ Contact Group Enrollment Page (internal self-registralion): Customer's internal Contacts may sign up on the Contact Group Enrollment
Page and enroliment information will be transferred to Customer.

* Provider agrees that it will, upon termination of the Agreement and Customer's request, provided all Fees are paid in full, transmit in
Provider's standard formal any Community Notification Enrollment data received on or after the Effective Date and all Contact Group
Enrollment data, one (1) time, to Customer al no charge.

* Traditional Import: For its initial population of the Contact list, Customer may supply Provider with a spreadsheet (flat-file format) of Contact
list data. Customer Support will scrub (examine) the submission as a courtesy for discernible data exceptions, or errors in formatting or
content that might interfere with the proper loading of data or use of the Service. Provider generally updates data provided via traditional
import within two (2) business days after receipt of such data. Customer may utilize this (raditiona! Nat-file import no more than one (1)
lime per year at no additional cost, unless otherwise set forth on the Service Order.

* On-Demand Entry: Customer may enter or edit Contact data directly within the Service through the User interface.

Customer Support. Provider provides Customer with 24/7/3685 live phone support at no extra charge. Customer may dial (866) 939-091}, or the
local support number provided to you by Provider, At Provider's reasonable discretion, non-urgent after hours and off hours ("AHOH”) inquiries
may be deferred until conventional business hours to facilitate best handling,
Training, All training is customized and individual to the Customer. Provider training included with subscription at no extra charge:
« One (1) annual Initiator training session;
° Unlimited pre-recorded, web-based remote trainings
° New features training sessions; and
° Best practices feature training sessions (whenever applicable).
Provider Customer Support works with Customer to schedule training flexibly and to accommodate Customer's schedule. All training is conducted
via Web meating/conference call.
ONSOLVE, LLC Page 3 of 4
CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY
June 2016 Form

Customer may request additional sessions, or onsite training in lieu of Web-based training. Such training is billable at a base $1,500 day rate
(minimum half day fee applies). For any onsite training, Customer is responsible for all of Provider's reasonable and pre-approved
travel/lodging/incidental expenses.

Support Documentation. Service documentation appears online. In addition to other online help documentation, Customer may download/print
the current version of the Provider User Guide at any time.

Description of Additional Features. Customer may purchase (if sel forth on the Services Order);

« Commercially Available Data. Provider shall include commercially available data (the “Commercial Data") for use by Customer in the
Service. Provider will perform Commercial Data updates 3 to 4 times per year, Commercial Data is subject to licensing requirements thal
do not permit Provider to transfer ownership to Customer.

® Foreign Message Translation. All Notifications must be input in English. Once specified, languages may not be changed, absent execution
of an updated Schedule 1, ONLY those Users that have opted-in to the Service will receive their selected FMT. Translation is supplied by
a third party and is AS-IS.

*  CodeRED Weather Warning® (CRWW’*) - Includes aulomated Notifications generaled from severe weather bulletins issued by the
National Weather Service ("NWS"). CRWW Notifications are sent by matching the geographic locations associated wilh Users against the
geographic polygon(s) associated with severe weather bulletins issued by NWS. CRWW Noalifications are automatically launched 24 hours
a day in response to the issuance of NWS severe weather bulletins. ONLY (hose Users thal have opted-in to CRWW will receive CRWW
Notifications. Consent far opt-in is required as set forth in the Agreement, CRWW Notifications are not deducted from Message Units.

* — Integrated Public Alert Warning System ("IPAWS") Submission App ("“IPAWS App"). Permits Customer to-submit Notifications to IPAWS.
IPAWS Notifications may be reviewed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency ("FEMA") to determine appropriate dissemination.
Initialors with access to the IPAWS App shall be authorized by FEMA to use IPAWS. In order to use the IPAWS App, Customer agrees to
provide Provider, using best practices and secure means, with a copy of its IPAWS digital signature ("Signature") along with its associated
keystore, Signature pass codes, application for IPAWS, and any other information reasonably requested by Provider, Customer authorizes
Provider to use and keep such information on Provider's servers for the purpose of allowing Customer and Provider to access, use and
test IPAWS through the IPAWS App. Customer acknowledges and agrees that; (a) the dissemination of Notifications through IPAWS is

not guaranteed nor controlled by Provider, and is the sole responsibility of FEMA; (b) Provider shall not be responsible or liable for the
failure of Notifications to be disseminated through IPAWS; and (c) IPAWS may include additional features which are not supported through
the IPAWS App (eg. the receipt of messages) and Provider shall not be required to provide such additional features. IPAWS App
Notifications are not deducted from Message Units.

« Bulletin Board. Bulletin Board allows Customer to record messages by dialing an interactive voice response system. Customer may
promote its assigned number, and callers may call to listen to the prerecorded messages. Bulletin Board will capture the caller's spoken
responses and/or keypress information and provide a report in the Service, Upon termination or expiration of the Agreement, Providar will
retain any numbers provided. Message Units for Bulletin Board will be deducted in sixty (60) second increments. All incoming calls whether
made for the purpose of recording or listening to Notifications will result in call time deduction.

* Conference Calling. Conference lines are available on a first come, first serve basis. Conference lines are supplied by a third party and
are AS-IS. Message Units for Conference Calling will be deducted in Sixty (60) second increments. Each line invited into the call will result
in call tIme deduction.

¢ = GIS Custom Map, GIS information must be in a standard format recognizable and electronically transferable to the Service. A full GIS map
must be provided by Customer for hosting by Provider in order to be used in the Service.

ONSOLVE, LLC Page 4 of 4
CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY
June 2018 Form

Exhibit B
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
1. DEFINITIONS.
t.1, “Affiliate” means any entity which directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, a Party to this
Agreement, where “control" means the control, through ownership or contract, of more than 50% of all the voting power of the shares entitled
to vote for the election of the entity's directors or members of the entity's governing body; provided that such entity shall be considered an
Affiliate only for the time during which such control exists.
1.2. “API” means the application Program interface for the Service.
4.3: “API Contacts” means an individual person whose information is stored in an external third party application database (not in the
Service database) capable of only receiving and responding to Notifications. API Contacts are not permitted to log in to the Service. All API
Contacts are included in Customer's total number of Contacts as set forth on the Service Order, whether or not they are transmitted to the
Service.
1.4. “Applicable Law” means any domestic and/or foreign statute, ordinance, judicial decision, executive order, or regulation having the
force and effect of law, including US-EU Privacy Shield (where applicable).
1:5, “Contact” means an individual person capable of only receiving and responding to Notifications and, if permitted, updating its own
profile. Contact includes API Contacts.
1.6. “Content” means content, data, text, Messages and other material contained in a Notification.
1.7. “Data Processing Addendum” means Provider's data processing addendum (if applicable) that is executed by the Parties under this
Agreement.
1.8. “Documentation” means any official, applicable documentation that Provider provides to Customer (electronic or written) regarding
the Service.
1.9. “EU or Swiss Personal Data” means Standard Personal Information of any European Economic Area (EEA) resident as defined
under the General Data Protection Regulation (EU 201 6/679)("GDPR") and any national laws implementing the GDPR, regulations and
secondary legislation, or of any Swiss resident as defined under the Swiss Federal Data Protection Act and Data Ordinance 2017, each as
amended or updated from time to time.
1.10. “Fees” means any fees due hereunder, including without limitation all Transaction Fees and Subscription Fees.
1.11, “Initiator(s)" means an individual person or application authorized to create and issue Notifications.
1.12. “Notification(s)" means messages issued by an Initiator through the Service, whether or not responded to by Contact.
1,13. “Sensitive Data” means any personally identifiable information relating to health/genetic or biometric information; religious beliefs
of affiliations; political opinions or political party membership; labor or trade union membership; sexual preferences, practices or marital
stalus; national, racial or ethnic origin; philosophical or moral beliefs; criminal record, investigations or proceedings or administrative
proceedings; financial, banking or credit data; date of birth; social security number or other national id number, drivers’ license information;
or any other “sensitive data" category specifically identified under any Applicable Laws.
1.14. “Service” means Provider's software-as-a-service, Internet-based and accessed notification service to set up and send
Notifications.
1.15, “Service Order* means the service order to which these Terms and Conditions are attached, which describes the specific Service
to be provided to Customer.
1.16, “Standard Personal Information” means name, business contact details (work telephone number, cell phone number, 8-mail
address and office address and location), personal contact details (home telephone number, cell phone number, other telephone, e-mail
address and physical address), geolocation, and employee ID or other non-identifying ID number.
1.17. “Subscription Fee” means the fees for access to and use of the Service, including any activation fees.
1.18 “Transaction Fee” means the fees for individual transactions of sending and/or receiving Notifications to and from devices.
1.19. “User” means, collectively, Initiator(s) and Contact(s).
2. SCOPE OF THE SERVICE.
2.1. Service. Subject to these Terms and Conditions (this “Agreement’), including the Exhibits attached hereto, Provider shall provide
Customer with access to the Service in accordance with Provider's Documentation. Customer will not, and will not allow or assist any other
entity to, sublicanse, assign, transfer, distribute, rent or sell use or access to the Service, or remove, alter or obscure any product identification,
copyright or other notices. Only Customer, its Affiliates’ and their respective employees and agents may act as Initiators; all use of the Service
by Customer, its Affiliates’ and their respective employees and agents is subject to the restrictions set forth in this Agreement.
2.2. Ownership and Service Components. All rights not expressly granted to Customer herein are expressly reserved by Provider, The
Service is and shall remain the exclusive property of Provider and its licensors. Customer represents and warrants it has the right and
authority to provide Provider with the Content for use in connection with the Service and Provider agrees that Content shall be owned by
Customer, Provider and its third-party providers shall have a royalty-free, worldwide, transferable, sub-licenseable license to use the Content
to perform the Service. Provider may gather Service data for the purpose of optimizing the Service. This information includes data regarding
memory usage, connection speed and efficiency. Users are subject to Provider's terms of service and privacy policy available on Provider's
website, www.onsolve.com/privacy-statement, Customer shall not, and shall not allow or assist any other entity to, create derivative works,
modify, decompile, disassemble, or otherwise reverse engineer or attempt to discover any source code or underlying ideas of any component
of the Service, except to the extent that Applicable Law prohibits such restrictions. Customer agrees that any suggestions, enhancement
requests, recommendations, or other improvements (collectively, “Feedback") provided by Customer to Provider may be incorporated by
Provider into the Service. Feedback is Provided without warranty of any kind. Customer grants Provider the right to copy, distribute, transmit,
publicly display, publicly perform, reproduce, edit, translate, and reformat the Feedback, and the right to sublicense such rights to others. No
compensation will be paid with respect to the use of Feedback.
ONSOLVE, LLC Page 1 of 6 Customer Inittate LAL
CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY
December 2018 Form

2.3. Contact Limit. During the term of the applicable Service Order and for a period of one (1) year thereafter, Provider shall have the
right (at its own expense, upon reasonable notice, and no more frequently than once per calendar year unless prior breach has been
uncovered) lo inspect the number af Contacts. If Provider determines that Customer has exceeded the licensed number of Contacts,
Customer shall pay Provider for the additional Contacts and the costs of such review within ten (10) days of Provider's invoice.
3. PAYMENT AND TAXES
3,1. Payment. Customer shall pay the Fees as set forth on the Service Order to this Agreement without setoff or deductions, within thirty
(30) days from the invoice date, Payment shall be in advance, excluding any Transaction Fees which will be billed in arrears. Unpaid balances
will be subject to interest al a rate of one and a half percent (1.5%) per month or the highest rate permitted by Applicable Law, whichever is
lower, commencing on the date that Payment was due.
3.2. Taxes. In addition to the Fees, Customer agrees to pay any taxes (including any VAT or sales tax), whether foreign, federal, state,
local or municipal that may be imposed upon or with respect to the Service exclusive of taxes on Provider's net income.
3.3, Message Surcharges. Provider will not be liable to Customer, to any Contact or to any other person for any charges or fees that
arise from sending or receipt of a Notification using the Service, including as a result of increases in pass-through charges by
telecommunications providers.
4. TERM AND TERMINATION
4.1, Term. Unless earlier terminated in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Initial Term of this Agreement shall begin on
the Effective Date and continue for the period set forth on the applicable Service Order. Upon completion of the Initial Term, this Agreement
shall automatically renew for successive renewal terms (each a “Renewal Term’) as set forth on the applicable Service Order, unless either
party provides at least thirty (30) days' written notice that the Agreement will expire at the end of the Initial Term or then-current Renewal
Term.
4.2. Termination. If either party defaults in any of its material obligations under this Agreement and such default has not been cured
within thirty (30) days after written notice of such default, or if either party makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, files a voluntary
petition in bankruptcy, is adjudicated bankrupt or insolvent, is subject to appointment of a receiver or is a Party in any proceeding in any
jurisdiction to which it is subject that has an effect similar or equivalent to any of the events mentioned, the non-defaulling party may
immediately terminate this Agreement in addition to its other rights and remedies.
4.3. Suspension. Provider may suspend the Service: (a) effective immediately upon notice if Customer breaches any provision under
Section 5 (Customer Obligations); or (b) if payment for any portion of the Fees is not received by Provider within fifteen (15) days after receipt
of written notice that payment is past due. Such Suspension shall not modify or lengthen the term of this Agreement or any then current
Service Order, nor shall any rights or obligations hereunder be waived during the suspension period,
4.4. Effects of Termination. Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement (i) Provider will, upon written request of Customer, erase
Customer data from the production servers controlled by Provider, except that: (a) any data stored on Provider's backup servers shall be
deleted as soon as technically feasible, and in any event within ninety (90) days from deletion from production, and Provider agrees that it
(1) shall discontinue processing such data; and (2) shall maintain the confidentiality of such data in accordance with this Agreement; and (b)
Provider may retain report data (e.g., date/time of Notification and number of Notifications sent) necessary to support its billing and accounting
records; (ii) Customer will immediately pay to Provider all amounts due and payable for Services delivered prior to the date of termination;
(ill) Customer shall immediately cease all use of the Service and return or destroy all copies, extracts, derivatives and reflections of the
Service, and, upon Provider's request, provide written notice that Customer has fully complied with this clause, and (iv) remedies for breach,
fights to accrued payments and Sections 1 (Definitions), 2.2 (Ownership and Service Components), 2.3 (Contact Limit), 3. (Payment and
Taxes), 4.4 (Effects of Termination), 5 (Customer Obligations), 6 (Confidentiality and Security), 8 (Indemnification and Responsibility), 9
(Limitation of Liability), and 10 (General) will survive. Upon termination of this Agreement for Customer's breach: {a) Customer will
immediately pay to Provider all unpaid Fees that would become due under the then-current term if such termination did not occur; and (b)
Provider shall retain any Fees paid to date. Upon termination of this Agreement for Provider's breach, Provider will refund an amount equal
to the prorated amount of Fees paid for the remainder of the then current term, less any expenses for transactions completed prior to the
date of termination, which shall be calculated based upon the Transaction Fees.
5. CUSTOMER OBLIGATIONS
5.1. Customer Obligations. The Service is Subject to pass-through terms from certain telephony, facsimile, GIS and/or Short Message
Service (SMS) vendors and as such, Provider may modify these terms upon thirty (30) days written notice to Customer if reasonably
necessitated due to changes by the third-party providers. Failure to comply with these terms could result in the termination of certain critical
services from Provider's vendors which would impact all of Provider's customers.
§.2, Acceptable Use Policy. Customer will use the Service In accordance with all Applicable Laws and the Acceptable Use Policy
attached to the Agreement as Exhibit C.
5.3. Data Security. Customer acknowledges and agrees that Provider does not require or “pull” any specific data from Customer; that
Customer controls which data and Content is input through the Service and which data is sent and to whom such data is sent; and that
Provider only specifically tracks the privacy regulations of the United States, Canada, and the European Economic Area, Switzerland and
Japan with respect to the Standard Personal Information and shall have no obligations with respect to privacy regulations in other countries
or for other types of data. Accordingly: (i) Customer shall not under any circumstances, transmit or store any Sensitive Data to or through the
Service; and (ii) Customer shall not transmit or store any EU or Swiss Personal Data to or through the Service unless: (a) Customer is certified
under the US-EU Privacy Shield Framework and complies with the Privacy Shield’s principles in connection with the protection and handling
of its Standard Personal Information or Customer hereby represents to Provider that its protection and handling of Standard Personal
Information is in compliance with the principles outlined in the US-EU Privacy Shield Framework, consisting of: Notice; Choice, Acc tability
ONSOLVE, LLC Page 2016 Customer Initiate
CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY
December 2018 Form PLL

for Onward Transfer; Security; Data Integrity and Purpose Limitation; Access; Recourse; Enforcement and Liability; or (b) Customer has
executed the Data Processing Addendum, and in such case Customer shall fully comply with the Data Processing Addendum. Provider is
certified under the US-EU Privacy Shield Framework and complies with the EU-US Privacy Shield principles in its handling and processing
of Standard Personal Information,
6. CONFIDENTIALITY AND SECURITY.
6.1. Confidential Information. During the course of this Agreement, each party may have access to confidential, proprietary or trade
secret information disclosed by the other party, including, without limitation, ideas, trade secrets, procedures, methods, systems, and
concepts, whether disclosed orally or in writing or stored within the Service, or by any other media (“Confidential Information"). Any
information related to the Service, including Documentation, security information, and API information, shall be deemed to be Confidential
Information of Provider, and any Content shall be deemed to be Confidential Information of Customer. Each party (the “Receiving Party")
acknowledges that the Confidential Information of the other partly (the “Disclosing Party") contains valuable trade secrets and other proprietary
information of the Disclosing Party and that any such Confidential Information will remain the sole and exclusive property of the Disclosing
Party. Each party will use Confidential Information only for the purpose of performing under this Agreement, restrict disclosure of Confidential
Information solely to its employees and contractors with a need to know, not disclose such Confidential Information to any other entities
unless required to perform the terms of this Agreement, and otherwise protect the Confidential Information with no less restrictive measures
than it uses to protect its own confidential and proprietary information. Information will not be deamed “Confidential Information’ if it: (a) is
generally available to the public (other than through breach of this Agreement); (b) is received from a third party lawfully empowered to
disclose such information without being subject to an obligation of confidentiality; or (c) was rightfully in the Receiving Party's possession
free of any obligation of confidence at the time it was communicated to the Receiving Party. Notwithstanding the above, the Receiving Party
will not be in violation of the confidentiality restrictions herein with regard to a disclosure that was in response to a valid order by a court or
other governmental body, provided that the Receiving Party provides the Disclosing Party with prompt written notice prior to such disclosure
where reasonably possible In order to permit the Disclosing Party to seek confidential treatment of such information, A Receiving Party shall
promptly notify the Disclosing Party if the Receiving Party becomes aware of any misuse or unauthorized disclosure of Confidential
Information.
6.2. Security. Provider has put in place commercially reasonable information security procedures designed to protect and prevent
unauthorized access to Content and Contact data. Provider will only process Content in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
Agreement and Customer's instructions. Provider's Security procedures include physical security, network security, hosted/data security and
web security. Provider may modify its security procedures from time to time in accordance with changes to industry standards, but only ina
manner that retains or increases the stringency of Provider's security obligations.
7. REPRESENTATIONS AND DISCLAIMER
7.1. Mutual Representations. Each party represents and warrants that: (i) it has the full corporate right, power and authority to enter into
this Agreement, to grant the rights granted hereunder and to fully perform its obligations under this Agreement; (ii) the execution of this
Agreement by such party, and the performance by such party of its obligations hereunder, does not and will not violate or conflict with any
agreement to which such party is a party or by which itis otherwise bound; and (iii) when executed and delivered by such party, this Agreement
will constitute the legal, valid and binding obligation of such party, enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms.
7.2. Additional Provider Representations. Provider represents and warrants that: (i) the Service will conform in all material respects to
Applicable Law, Provider's Documentation: and (ii) all customer support, training and other services to be performed hereunder shall be
performed in a professional and workmanlike manner consistent with industry standards.
7.3. Disclaimer. Provider makes no representation, warranty or guaranty, that the Service will work with, or be supported by, all protocols,
networks, operating systems or environments; will be error-free; or that all Notifications will be delivered. Customer acknowledges and agrees
that the Service is provided on a best efforts basis and is not designed, intended, authorized or warranted to be suitable for hosting life-
support or EMT-based applications or other critical applications where the failure or potential failure of the Service can cause injury, harm,
death, or other grave problems, including delays in getting medical care or other Smergency services, and that any use of the Service to
Support such applications is fully al Customer's risk and Customer acknowledges that Provider will not have any liability for issues related to
such use. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE SERVICE IS PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS" AND
“AS AVAILABLE” BASIS WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. PROVIDER EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER WARRANTIES,
WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, REGARDING THE SERVICE, INCLUDING THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
8. INDEMNIFICATION AND RESPONSIBILITY
8.1. Provider General Indemnification. Provider will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless Customer and its employees (“Customer
Indemnitees") from and against any and all third Party actions, losses, awards, liabilities, claims, expenses, damages, settlements, fees,
penalties and costs of every kind and description, including reasonable legal fees and government regulatory fines (collectively, ‘Losses’,
arising from: (i) any gross negligence or willful misconduct by Provider; or (ii) any breach of Section 6 by Provider.
8.2. Provider IP Indemnification. Provider will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the Customer Indemnitees from and against all
Losses arising out of a claim that the Service directly infringes a copyright or patent issued as of the Effective Date, or other intellectual
Property right of a third party. The foregoing obligation of indemnification does not apply where: (a) Customer's use of the Service is not in
compliance with the terms of this Agreement: (b) Customer has modified the Service or any part thereof without Provider's express, written
authorization; (c) Customer has combined the Service with sofware, hardware, system, data, or other materials not supplied or authorized
by Provider where the infringement or misappropriation relates to such combination, unless Provider expressly authorized such combination
or the combination was provided for in the Documentation; (d) the Loss Is as a result of Content or Contact data; or (e) Customer continues
use of the Service after being provided modifications that would have avoided the alleged infringement. In the event Provider believes that
ONSOLVE, LLC Page J of 6 Customer Initiats 4 y Lb
CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY
December 2014 Farm

the Service is, or is likely to be, the subject of an infringement claim, Provider may, al its option, (1) procure for Customer the right to continue
using the Service under this Agreement, (2) replace or modify the Service so that it becomes non-infringing but substantially equivalent in
functionality and performance, or (3) if neither clause (1) or (2) are feasible in spite of Provider's reasonable efforts, terminate this Agreement
and refund a prorated portion of the Subscription Fees based on the days left in the Initial Term or then-current Renewal Term, tess any
expenses for usage accrued prior to the date of termination. The foregoing obligations are Provider's Only obligations and liability in
connection with infringement by the Service.
8.3 Customer Indemnification. Customer agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless Provider and its Affiliates, licensors and
suppliers from and against all Losses arising out of: (i) Customer's breach of Sections 5 and 6; (ii) third party claims that Customer's Content
infringes on any intellectual property rights; or (iii) Customer's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
8.4 Indemnification Procedures. Each party seeking indemnification hereunder shall provide the other party with: (i) prompt written
notice of any claim for which indemnification is sought; (ii) complete control of the defense and settlament of such claim; and (ili) reasonable
assistance and cooperation in such defense at the indemnifying party's expense. In any proceeding the indemnified party shall have the
right to retain, at its expense, its own counsel. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the indemnifying party may not enter into a settlement of a
claim that involves a remedy other than the payment of money by the indemnified party (which amounts must be subject te indemnification
by the indemnifying party) without the indemnified party's written consent.
9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
9.1. Limitation on Liability. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, EXCEPT WITH RESPECT TO BREACH
OF SECTION 5.2 or Section 5.3 (CUSTOMER OBLIGATIONS) OR SECTION 6 (CONFIDENTIALITY AND SECURITY) OR ANY
OBLIGATIONS UNDER SECTION 8 (INDEMNIFICATION AND RESPONSIBILITY): (a) INNO EVENT SHALL EITHER PARTY BE LIABLE
TO THE OTHER PARTY OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR ANY LOSS OF DATA, REVENUES, PROFITS OR OTHER ECONOMIC
ADVANTAGE, OR ANY INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY OR OTHER SIMILAR
DAMAGES OF ANY KIND OR NATURE, (HOWEVER ARISING, INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE) ARISING OUT OF, OR IN ANY WAY
CONNECTED WITH, THE SERVICE OR THIS AGREEMENT, EVEN IF THE PARTY FROM WHICH DAMAGES ARE BEING SOUGHT
HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES; AND (b) IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CUMULATIVE LIABILITY OF
EITHER PARTY, ITS AFFILIATES AND ITS AND THEIR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS EXCEED THE FEES
ACTUALLY PAID OR PAYABLE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT DURING THE TWELVE (12) MONTHS OF SERVICE PRIOR TO THE DATE
ON WHICH SUCH CLAIM AROSE. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, EXCEPT WITH RESPECT TO
GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT, IN NO EVENT SHALL PROVIDER'S TOTAL CUMULATIVE LIABILITY FOR ANY
BREACH OF SECTION 6 (CONFIDENTIALITY AND SECURITY) EXCEED THREE TIMES (3X) THE FEES ACTUALLY PAID BY
CUSTOMER UNDER THIS AGREEMENT DURING THE TWELVE (12) MONTH PERIOD IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE DATE FIRST
NOTICE IS PROVIDED BY CUSTOMER REFERENCING THE RELEVANT CLAIM HEREUNDER. Customer understands and agrees that
the limitation of liability in this Agreement for Provider is reasonable and that Provider would not enter into this Agreement without such
limitations.
10, GENERAL
10.1. Force Majeure. Neither party shall be responsible for delays or failures of performance resulting from acts beyond the reasonable
control of such party, including acts of God, acts of war, riots, acts of tarror and other acts or omissions of third parties such as interruptions,
delays, or malfunctions of service by third-party service providers.
10.2. Dispute Resolution, Except for injunctive relief sought by either party, the parties agree to cooperate and ascalate any dispute or
controversy ("Dispute") arising out of or related to the performance of this Agreement or any Service Order to each party's business managers,
who will meet and work in good faith to resolve each Dispute within ten (10) business days after receiving notification of the Dispute. If the
business managers are unable to resolve the Dispute, either party may escalate the Dispute to the next highest level of management for
resolution, If the Dispute remains unresolved thirty (30) days after referral to the next highest level of management within each party, either
party may bring suit in a court of competent jurisdiction. This Section shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement for any
reason. If either party engages attorneys to enforce any rights out of or relating to this Agreement, the prevailing party in any action to enforce
or interpret this Agreement shall be entitled to recover any and all costs and expenses of any nature including attorneys’ and experts’ fees
and costs.
10.3. Publicity. For the duration of this Agreement, Provider may use Customer's name and logo on the Provider web site and in Provider's
collateral marketing materials identifying Customer as a purchaser of the Service. If Provider's expected use of Customer's name and/or logo
includes more than basic identification of Customer, Provider shall provide Customer with a copy of such content for approval, such approval
not to be unreasonably withheld.
10.4. Survival of Terms. The rights and obligations of either party that by their nature would continue beyond the termination or expiration
of this Agreement shall survive termination or expiration of this Agreement. For example, the provisions of this Agreement regarding
indemnification and/or limitation of liability shall survive termination of this Agreement as lo any cause of action arising under the Agreement.
10.5. Independent Contractor. Provider's relationship with Customer shall be that of an independent contractor, and nothing in this
Agreement shall be construed to create a partnership, joint venture, principat-agent, or employer-employee relationship. Neither party will
have or represent that it has the right, power or authority to bind, contract or commit the other party or to create any obligation on behalf of
the other party.
ONSOLVE, LLC Page 4 of 6 Customer tnitlale Ly p
CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY
Dacamber 2018 Form

10.6. Severability. If any term or provision of this Agreement or the application thereof is to any extent held invalid or unenforceable, the
remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby, and each term and provision hereof shall be valid and enforced to the fullest extent
of the law.
10.7 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding between Customer and Provider with
respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous verbal and written negoliations, agreements and
understandings, if any, between the parties. This Agreement cannot be modified except by a writing signed by an authorized representative
of each party. The terms of this Agreement shall take precedence over any conflicting terms In purchase or procurement documentation,
such as a purchase order, acknowledgement form, or other similar documentation and any pre-printed terms and conditions on or attached
to Customer's purchase orders or invoices will be of no force or effect. The failure of either party to enforce any provision of this Agreement,
unless waived in writing by such party, will not constitute a waiver of that party's right to enforce that provision or any other provision of this
Agreement.
10.8. Notice, All notices and consents required or permitted under this Agreement must be in writing; must be personally delivered or sent
by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid), by overnight courier or other nationally recognized carrier, or by facsimile (receipt confirmed),
in each case to Provider's address on the Service Order, Attn: Legal, and to Customer's Business Contact on the Service Order, and will be
effective upon receipt. Each party may change its address for receipt of notices by giving notice of the new address to the other party.
10.9. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in facsimile and in counterparts.
10.10. Export Compliance. The Service and other Provider technology, and derivatives thereof may be subject to export laws and
regulations of the United States and other jurisdictions. Customer represents that it is not named on any U.S. government denied-parly list.
Customer will not permit any User to access or use the Service in a U.S.-embargoed country (currently Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan or
Syria) or in violation of any U.S. export law or regulation, and will not permit any U.S.-sanctioned persons or entilies to act as Users.
10.11. U.S. Government End Users. As defined in FAR section 2.101, DFAR section 252.227-7014(a)(1) and DFAR section 252.227-
7014(a)(5) or otherwise, all software and accompanying documentation provided in connection with this Agreement are "commercial items,”
“commercial computer software,” and or “commercial computer software documentation,” Consistent with DFAR section 227.7202 and FAR
section 12.212, any use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, disclosure or distribution thereof by or for the U.S.
Government shall be governed solely by the terms of this Agreement. Customer will ensure that each copy used or possessed by or for the
government is labeled to reflect the foregoing.
10.12. Assignments. Neither party may assign this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party, except to an Affiliate or
an entity that acquires all or substantially all of its business or assets, whether through merger, reorganization or otherwise. Any assignment
in violation of the foregoing shall be void and of no effect.
ONSOLVE, LLC WHITE CITY WATER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT, UTAH
Signed: Cc Baw d Those ae Signed: LE y Papeen -. ZF Z t
Printed Name:___Troy Harper Printed Name: MI 2 uw | a FE ep ‘wn t
. -_—

Title:___ General Manager, Public Sector Title:__ ( yi Qu hoa ral 2 £ / VH cte C5
Date:_ 08/22/2019 Date: kK = 2 | = 2 OfF a
Executed for Exhibits B and C
ONSOLVE, LLC Pago Sof6 Customer ve GL

CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY
Decamber 2016 Form

EXHIBIT C
ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY
1. General Terms.

4.1 All Content is Customer's sole responsibility. Customer is solely responsible for the integrity and quality of the Content.
Customer shall be responsible for, and under no circumstances will Provider or its Affiliates or any of their licensors or suppliers be
responsible, for any loss, damage or liability arising out of any Content, including any mistakes contained in the Content or the use or subject
matter of the Content. Further, Customer is responsible for: {i) any Notifications that are sent through its accounts (other than if caused by
the Service itself or breaches by Provider); (ii) all Fees accruing from the use of the Service through its account, whether by its Affiliates and
its and their employees and consultants; and (iil) all actions of its Affiliates, and its and their employees consultants, as if such actions had
been conducted by Customer.

1.2 Customer shall be responsible for procuring any necessary consents or having other legal basis to contact Contacts with
respect to the provision of any data transmitted through the Service.

1.3. Customer shall use any data it uploads into the Service in accordance with any and alt restrictions applicable to such data
and all Applicable Laws.

1.4 Customer will use and permit ils Users to use the Service in accordance with this Agreement and all Applicable Laws,
including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, Fair Debt Collections Practices Act, Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") of
Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) rules or regulations and any and all other Applicable Laws related to pre-recorded telephone and/or text
messages and the use of automated dialing equipment.

1.5 Customer will include, at the beginning of each Notification, its official business or government name, Customer will include,
at the end of each Notification, a telephone number for Customer.

1.6 Customer will not send any Notifications to mobile devices owned by a Contact unless Customer has obtained such Contact's
“opt-in” consent to receive, or Customer has other legal basis to send such Contact, pre-recorded, telephone and text Notifications using
automated dialing equipment.

1.7 Customer must provide Contacts with a simple mechanism for opting out or unsubscribing from receiving Notifications,
including information on how to “opt-out” or unsubscribe.

1.8 Customer will not send Notifications to phone numbers that are emergency numbers and/or other numbers that may not be
called using automated dialing equipment under Applicable Law.

1.9 Customer's total Notifications to an individual Contact will not exceed an average of one (1) Notification per day (via any
contact method), absent an emergency or a specific use case for the Contact. Should Customer exceed this fair use, the parties will meet to
discuss the reasons, review best practices and determine if an adjustment to Customer's Service plan is necessary. Due to vendor
requirements for ensuring Notifications sent by the Service are not blacklisted , Customer shall adhere to this fair use policy.

1.40 Customer will not send any Content that it knows, or has reason to know: (i) infringes another's rights in intellectual property;
(ii) invades any privacy laws including without limitation another's right to privacy and/or any privacy policies of Customer or any third-party:
and/or (iil) justifies a complaint to the FCC and/or FTC.

1.11 Customer will not, and will not permit its Users or any third parties to: (i) engage or facilitate any unethical, deceptive or
misleading practices in connection with the use of the Service: (ii) use the Service in connection with any telemarketing, solicitations,
donations, sales, spamming or any unsolicited messages (commercial or otherwise); and/or (iii) provide Content to be transmitted in the
Service which: (a) is defamatory, libelous, obscene, pomographic, or is otherwise harmful; (b) promotes violence, discrimination, illegal
activities, gambling, alcoholic beverages, guns or tobacco; and/or (c) contains or otherwise links to viruses, worms, cancelbots or any other
harmful code or computer programs designed to disrupt the functionality of any computer software or hardware or telecommunications
equipment.

1,12 Customer may send SMS Texts in text format only.

1.13 Customer acknowledges and agrees that Notifications may not be delivered to the phone if not in range of a transmission
sile, or if sufficient network capacity is not available at a particular time. Even within a coverage area, factors beyond the contro! of the carrier
may interfere with message delivery, including the Customer's equipment, terrain, proximity to buildings, foliage, and weather. Customer
acknowledges that urgent Notifications may not be timely received and thal the carrier does not guarantee that messages will be delivered.

1.14 Customer acknowledges that Provider may block Notifications (e.g.. based on instructions from Contacts, carriers,
aggregators, government agencies, etc.),

1.15 Customer agrees to maintain all security regarding its (and its Users’) account ID, password, and connectivity with the
Service. If Customer's account ID or password are stolen, or otherwise compromised Customer is obligated to immediately change the
Password and inform Provider of the compromise,

ONSOLVE, LLG Paga 6 of 6 Customer wo YE
CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY
December 2018 Form
