                           WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP


RESOLUTION NO.: 20-04-01                                        DATE: May 7, 2020


     A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
   IDENTIFYING THE INTENT TO AMEND AND ESTABLISH SPECIAL LAND
  USE RULES, REGULATIONS, AND MANAGEMENT FOR FEMA-IDENTIFIED
   FLOOD ZONES LOCATED IN WHITE CITY TO APPLY FOR INCLUSION IN
             THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM


                                       RECITALS


A. The White City Metro Township (“White City”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah
   Code Annotated (“UCA”) §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.

B. The White City Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal governing
   body for White City pursuant to UCA § 10-3b-501.

C. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”) is an agency of the United
   States Government tasked with assisting and supporting State, County, and Local
   Governments with disaster preparation, training, incident management support, and
   possible emergency recovery efforts.

D. Pursuant to the protection of people and property, and as part of a statewide flood
   zone identification study FEMA performed, there may be locations in White City that
   are susceptible to a threat of flooding (“Flood Zones”).

E. Identified flood zones include certain key facilities the public needs for the general
   health and safety of White City.

F. Prior to the incorporation of White City on January 1, 2017, all land use decisions in
   flood zones were made and administered by Salt Lake County as the “municipal
   government” of White City.



                                             1
G. The land use ordinances and regulations regarding flood zones became White City's
   ordinances and regulation and may need to be amended due to White City's
   incorporation.

H. Identifying, evaluating and pursuing mitigation efforts within possible flood zones,
   and recognizing flood zones in official actions relating to land use as we move
   forward, and addressing issues in the FEMA-identified flood zones in the
   municipality, it is the intent of the White City Council to ensure flood zone maps,
   land use ordinances, regulations and hazard management are in compliance with
   FEMA regulations such that its residents can benefit from the National Flood
   Insurance Program.

I. Pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-3c-103, 68-3-12.5, and 10-9a-501 et al, the Council has
   the statutory authority to adopt land use and control measures to reduce future flood
   losses.


                                        RESOLUTION


THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the White City Metro Township Council,
        1. The Council assures the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) that
it will enact as necessary, and maintain in force, in those areas having flood hazards,
adequate land use and control measures with effective enforcement provisions consistent
with the criteria set forth in Section 60 of the National Flood Insurance Program
Regulations; and
       2. Vest the Flood Control Engineer with the responsibility, authority and means
to:
       (a) Assist the Director of Planning and Development Services (the “Director” or
"Administrator"), at his/her request, in the delineation of the limits of the area having
special flood hazards.

       (b) Provide such information concerning present uses and occupancy of the
floodplain, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) or flood-related erosion areas as the Director may
request.



                                              2
   (c) Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request, for the determination of
applicable flood insurance risk premium rates within all areas having special flood
hazards identified on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM), any certificates of floodproofing, and information on the elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the level of the lowest flood (including basement) of all
new construction or substantially improved structures, and include whether or not such
structures contain a basement, and if the structure has been floodproofed, the elevation
(in relation to mean sea level) to which the structure was floodproofed.

   (d) Cooperate with Federal, State and local agencies and private firms which
undertake to study, survey, map and identify floodplain, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) or
flood-related erosion areas, and cooperate with neighboring communities with respect to
management of adjoining floodplain, mudslide, (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related
erosion areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards.

   (e) Upon occurrence, notify the Administrator in writing whenever the boundaries
of the community have been modified by annexation or the community has otherwise
assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management
regulations for a particular area. In order that all FHBM’s and FIRM’s accurately
represent the community’s boundaries, include within such notification a copy of the map
of the community suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits
or new area for which the community has assumed or relinquished floodplain
management regulatory authority.

   (f) Submit an annual report to the Administrator concerning the community's
participation in the program, including, but not limited to the development and
implementation of floodplain management measures.

   3. Appoints the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District with the responsibility,
authority, and means to implement the commitments as outlined in this Resolution.



                                             3
   4. Agrees to take such other official action as may be reasonably necessary to carry
out the objectives of the adopted floodplain management measures.



   APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the White City Metro Township, Salt Lake County,
Utah this   7    day of        May          , 2020.

                                        FOR THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP:




                                                PAULINA F FLINT, MAYOR
ATTEST
                                                  APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
                                                  PAUL H. ASHTON
                                                  METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY


VOTING
Council Member Perry voting
Mayor Flint voting
Council Member Price voting
Council Member Dickerson voting
Council Member Little voting




                                            4
