WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 21-12-01 DATE: December 9, 2021
A RESOLUTION OF WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
APPROVING AND AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF A LICENSE
| AGREEMENT WITH GOOGLE FIBER
WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township ("White City") is a Municipality pursuant to
Utah Code §§ 10-2a-401 et seq; and

WHEREAS White City is governed by a five-member elected Council under Utah Code
Ann.§ 10-3-205.5, which Council elects from its members a Mayor, and

WHEREAS, White City, by and through its Council, has determined authorizing execution of
a License Agreement with Google Fiber, as set forth in the attached Agreement, Attachment "A", will
benefit the residents of White City and will contribute to the prosperity, well-being, peace, and
comfort of the community.

NOW THEREFORE IT IS RESOLVED, the White City Metro Township Council hereby
approves, and authorizes the Mayor to sign, the attached License Agreement with Google Fiber
(ATTACHMENT A).

IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED, the Mayor and City Attorney may make non-material changes
to the Agreement prior to signing if needed to respond to comments and suggestions of the other party to
the Agreement, it being understood and agreed that each party to the Agreement is represented by legal
counsel that may have input to the document.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 9th day of December, 2021 by the White City Metro
Township Council in White City Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah.

WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP:
PAULINA F. FLINT, MAYOR

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

ATTEST PAUL if Ut é Le ‘as

/ ; METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
__ AH INNA SS W nA
SHERRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER
VOTING BY COUNCIL:
MAYOR FLINT Aye
COUNCIL MEMBER PRICE Aye
COUNCIL MEMBER PERRY Aye
COUNCIL MEMBER LITTLE Aye
COUNCIL MEMBER CARDENAZ Aye

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
NON-EXCLUSIVE LICENSE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP AND GOOGLE FIBER UTAH, LLC
FOR THE INSTALLATION OF NETWORK FACILITIES
IN THE CITY PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY

This Non-Exclusive License Agreement (“Agreement”) is made as of the Effective Date by and

between the White City Metro Township, a Utah municipality (“City”), and Google Fiber Utah,

LLC, a Utah limited liability company, and its subsidiaries, successors, or assigns (“Licensee”).

RECITALS

A. City has jurisdiction over the use of the public rights-of-way in City in which it now or hereafter
holds any property interest (“Public ROW’).

B. Licensee desires, and City desires to permit Licensee, to install, maintain, operate, and/or
control a fiber optic infrastructure network in the Public ROW (“Network”) for the purpose of
offering communications services (“Services”), including broadband Internet access service
as defined in 47 C.F.R. § 8.1(b) ("Broadband Internet Services”), but excluding multichannel
video programming services that would be subject to a video services franchise, to residents
and businesses in City (“Customers”).

C. The Network may consist of equipment and facilities that may include aerial strand: aerial or
underground fiber optic cables, lines, or strands; underground conduits, vaults, access
manholes and handholes; electronic equipment; power generators; batteries; pedestals:
boxes; cabinets; and other similar facilities reasonably needed to provide the Services
(“Network Facilities”).

D. City is a member of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District ("MSD"), an
independent local district. The MSD provides a number of services to the City including
engineering and public works. Some of those services, by interlocal agreement are provided
through Salt Lake County. By way of examples, references in this Agreement to the City
Engineer, therefore, refer to the Engineer retained by the MSD, whether in-house or by
contract, to serve the City, and City notices to Licensor may come from its representatives in
the MSD or Salt Lake County.

AGREEMENT

In consideration of the mutual promises made below, City and Licensee agree as follows:

1. Permission to Encroach and Occupy.

1.1 Permission to Encroach on and Occupy Public ROW. Subject to the conditions set
forth in this Agreement, City grants Licensee permission to encroach on and occupy
the Public ROW (the “License”) for the purpose of constructing, installing, repairing,
maintaining, operating, and if necessary removing the Network and the related
Network Facilities (the “Work’). This Agreement and the License do not authorize
Licensee to use any property other than the Public ROW. Licensee’s use of any other
City property, including parks, poles and conduits, will be governed under a separate
Agreement regarding that use.

1.2 Subject to State and Local Law. This Agreement and the License are subject to City’s
valid authority under State and local laws as they exist now or may be amended from

License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 1 of 17

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
time-to-time, and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement. City expressly
reserves the right to adopt, from time to time, in addition to provisions herein contained,
such ordinances and rules and regulations as City may deem necessary in the lawful
exercise of its police power for the protection of City’s property, the Public ROW, and
the health, safety and welfare of its citizens and their properties. Licensee agrees to
comply with all such applicable ordinances, rules, and regulations presently in effect,
and with all such lawful, nondiscriminatory, competitively neutral ordinances rules and
regulations City may subsequently enact.

1.3 Subject to City’s Right to Use Public ROW. This Agreement and the License are
subject and subordinate to City’s prior and future and continuing right to use the Public
ROW, including but not limited to constructing, installing, operating, maintaining,
repairing, or removing sewers, water pipes, storm drains, gas pipes, utility poles,
overhead and underground electric lines and related facilities, and other public utility
and municipal uses.

1.4 Subject to Pre-Existing Property Interests. City’s grant of the License is subject to alll
valid pre-existing easements, restrictions, conditions, covenants, encumbrances,
claims of title or other property interests that may affect the Public ROW. Licensee will
obtain at its own cost and expense any permission or rights as may be necessary to
accommodate such pre-existing property interests.

1.5 No Grant of Property Interest. The License does not grant or convey any property
interest.

1.6 Non-Exclusive. The License is not exclusive. City expressly reserves the right to grant
licenses, permits, franchises, privileges or other rights to any other individual,
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust, joint stock company, business
trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, governmental authority or other entity
of any nature whatsoever (“Person”), as well as the right in its own name as a
municipality to use the Public ROW for similar or different purposes allowed Licensee
under this Agreement.

1.7 Limitations. Licensee will not knowingly permit another Person to use its Network
Facilities in any manner which is solely intended to avoid the need for a franchise from
the City. Nothing in this Section prohibits Licensee from offering Services to another
Person who has authority to use and occupy the Public ROW. Licensee shall not
provide services directly regulated by the Utah Public Service Commission (PSC)
unless authorized by the PSC.

1.8 Cable System. Licensee shall not operate a cable system as defined in the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984 (47 USCA §521, et seq., as amended) without first
having obtained a separate cable agreement from the City.

1.9 Wireless Facilities. The Network Facilities will not include any wireless facilities and
will not be deployed by Licensee to provide “wireless services” or act as a “wireless
service provider” by way of the placement of wireless facilities in the Public ROW for
purposes of the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, codified as Utah Code Ann.
54-21-101, et seq. effective 1 September 2018, as the same hereafter may be
amended (the “Small Cell Act’), except pursuant to a separate agreement with City.

License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 2 of 17 &D :

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
The terms “wireless facilities,” “wireless services,” “wireless service provider,” as used
above are all as defined in the Small Cell Act.

1.10 Non-Discrimination. City’s grant of the License will be open, comparable,
nondiscriminatory, and competitively neutral, and City will at all times treat Licensee
in a lawful non-discriminatory manner as compared to other non-incumbent providers
offering facilities-based Broadband Internet Services.

1.11 Relationship. Nothing herein shall be deemed to create a partnership, joint venture,
or principal-agent relationship between the parties, and neither party is authorized to,
nor shall either party act toward third persons or the public in a manner that would
indicate any such relationship with the other.

2. Licensee’s Obligations.

2.1 Licensee shall comply with and follow all applicable City ordinances, in all work it
performs in the Public ROW. Licensee may only deviate from obligations in this
Subsection 2.1 and its subsections to the extent approved by the City Engineer, City
Mayor, or their delegates.

2.1.1 Licensee shall obtain all required permits or approvals for construction,
maintenance and operations, and shall at all times be subject to and comply with all
applicable laws, statutes, codes, rules, regulations, standards, fee schedules, and
procedures regarding the construction, operation and maintenance of the Network
Facilities in the Public ROW, now in force or which, hereafter, may be promulgated
(including but not limited to applicable zoning, land use, historic preservation
ordinances, safety standards, and other applicable requirements) and good industry
practices. City may inspect the manner of such work and require remedies as may be
necessary to assure compliance. In the event Licensee should fail to comply with the
terms of any City ordinance, regulation or requirement, City shall give Licensee written
notice of such non- compliance and the time for correction provided by ordinance or
as provided herein.

2.1.2 All work in the Public ROW shall be done in a timely, expeditious and safe
manner, and in a manner which minimizes the inconvenience to the public or
individuals, and shall follow applicable law.

2.1.3 Licensee will place its Network Facilities in conformance with the permits,
plans, and drawings approved by City. All Facilities constructed by Licensee shall be
located so as to cause minimum interference with and injury to (i) public use of the
Public ROW; (ii) public water mains, storm water infrastructure, street lights, or any
public use of the Public ROW; (iii) trees and other natural features.

2.1.4, All public and private property in or adjacent to dedicated easements
disturbed by Licensee’s construction or excavation activities shall be restored
promptly by Licensee, at its expense, to substantially its former condition, subject to
inspection by City and compliance by Licensee with remedial action required by the
City Engineer or his representative pursuant to said inspection.

2.1.5 Licensee will promptly repair any damage to the Public ROW, City property,
or private property if such damage is caused by the Work of Licensee, its contractors,

License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 3 of 17 Git

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
subcontractors, employees, agents or assigns, and no other person is solely
responsible for the damage (e.g., where a person other than Licensee fails to
accurately or timely locate its underground facilities as required by State law).
Licensee shall promptly notify the affected owner of the damaged property, and shall
promptly repair the damaged property to substantially its former condition, and in
accordance with applicable law. Licensee’s restoration work will start promptly but not
later than (i) twenty-four (24) hours from City notifying Licensee of damage that poses
an imminent threat to public health or safety, (ii) seventy-two (72) hours from City
notifying Licensee of damage that affects roads or highways, or (iii) fourteen (14) days
from City notifying Licensee of all other types of damage. City must notify Licensee of
damage under clauses 2.1.4(ii) and (iii) in writing, but may notify the Licensee by any
means of its choice in respect to 2.4(i). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, if
sent by electronic mail, the City’s written notice will be effective upon transmittal.
Licensee’s repair and restoration obligations under this Subsection 2.1 and its
subsections shall be limited by, and consistent with, any applicable seasonal or other
restrictions on construction or restoration work.

2.2 Licensee's Sole Cost and Expense. Licensee will perform the Work at its sole cost
and expense.

2.3 Compliance with Laws. Licensee will comply with all applicable laws and regulations
when performing the Work and in operating the Network Facilities. Licensee has
obtained or will obtain any necessary approvals, licenses or permits required by
federal and State law to provide Broadband Internet Services consistent with the
provisions of this Agreement.

2.4 Undergrounding. Licensee will use its best efforts to install or relocate its Network
Facilities underground. If after utilizing such best efforts and if any third-party
electricity or communications transmission or distribution facilities remain above
ground, Licensee may, with reasonable prior written notice to City, install or keep and
retain its Network Facilities above ground, but only to the same extent that such third-
party electricity or communications transmission or distribution facilities remain above
ground.

2.5 Reasonable Care, Safety, Workmanlike Manner. Licensee will exercise reasonable
care and shall act in a safe manner when performing the Work and will use
commonly accepted practices and equipment to minimize the risks of personal injury,
property damage, soil erosion, and pollution of surface or groundwater. The
installation, maintenance, renovation, and replacement of Licensee’s facilities in the
Public ROW shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner.

2.6 Prohibitions. Except as otherwise provided herein, Network Facilities maintained or
installed by Licensee within the City will be so located and constructed as not to do
any of the following acts, unless permitted in writing by the City Engineer, City
Mayor, or their delegates:

2.6.1 Interfere with access to or use of any fire hydrant; obscure the vision of or
interfere with the installation of any traffic-control device or traffic or information sign
or signal;

License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 4 of 17 ai

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
2.6.2 Interfere with, block or obscure motor vehicle driver sight distance lines or
views established by any ordinance or law, including within intersection and driveway
sight triangles;

2.6.3 Obscure the light from any street light;

2.6.4 Cross any water or sewer line except at a 90-degree angle, except in
accordance with a specific permit for such crossing issued by the agency which
operates the utility;

2.6.5 Damage irrigation, landscaping or trees owned or maintained by the City;

2.6.6 Damage any communications lines owned or maintained by the City, subject to
City’s compliance with applicable law (including requirements to accurately and timely
locate City’s underground facilities); and

2.6.7 Install Network Facilities in the paved sidewalk area unless authorized in
advance by the City.

2. No Nuisance/Graffiti. Licensee will maintain its Network Facilities in good and safe
condition and shall not allow its Network Facilities to cause a public nuisance. Licensee will
remove all graffiti from the identified Network Facilities in accordance with requirements
under City code.

2.8 Removal and Protection of City Property. Except as required in an emergency
event, no City property shall be removed from the Public ROW, including signage on
utility poles, without prior permission from an authorized representative of the City.

2.9 Emergency Repairs. In any emergency event in which Licensee needs to cut or
excavate a Public ROW, and in which Licensee must act immediately and is unable
to obtain a permit for excavating in the Public ROW from the City beforehand,
Licensee shall provide the City with notification of such work as soon as practicable
by calling the City Engineer at (385) 468-6600, or if after the Department’s business
hours, by calling such other emergency telephone number provided to Licensee by
the City, and shall report the emergency and all related information requested by the
City representative on call. Licensee shall give the City the telephone number of
Licensee’s representative(s) for contact about work in the Public ROW or in an
emergency. Licensee shall have a representative available by telephone at all times
when work is being done in the Public ROW,

2.10 Identification of Network Facilities. Licensee will identify its Network Facilities using
an identification method mutually agreed-upon by the parties, or as established by
standard industry practices and reasonably directed by City if the parties cannot
mutually agree on an identification method. For underground facilities, the
identification will be detectable without opening the street or sidewalk.

2.11 Cooperation in Joint Trench Opportunities. Licensee will cooperate with City in
identifying ways to minimize the amount of construction in the Public ROW through
joint trenching, sharing duct banks, and cost sharing with City and third parties
undertaking similar construction projects involving the installation of underground
communications facilities. Licensee’s cooperation obligation is subject to any such

License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 5 of 17 &D f

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
proposed joint trenching, duct sharing, and cost-sharing opportunities being
sufficiently compatible with Licensee’s plans, as reasonably determined by the
Licensee. Without limiting the foregoing, (i) the cooperation opportunity would not be
deemed sufficiently compatible with Licensee’s plan where the opportunity involves
different areas of the Public ROW than Licensee has permission to occupy under this
Agreement, or would unreasonably delay or otherwise hinder Licensee’s construction
plans, and (ii) Licensee is not obligated to cooperate if Licensee enters into a
commercial cooperation agreement reasonably satisfactory to the Licensee with
respect to such joint trenching or other cooperation with City or the third-party, as
applicable. Licensee will make good-faith efforts to enter into any such commercial
cooperation agreement in connection with fulfilling the foregoing cooperation
obligation.

2.12 As-Built Drawings and Maps. Licensee will maintain accurate as-built drawings and
maps of its Network Facilities located in City and will provide them as shapefiles to
the City subject to applicable confidentiality protections claimed by Licensee under
the Government Records and Management Act, Chapter 2, Title 63, Utah Code
Ann., or its successor (“GRAMA’”).

2.13 Utility Notification Program. Licensee shall participate in and be a member of the
State’s utility notification program, whether provided for by statute or otherwise.

2.14 Hazardous Materials. If contaminated or hazardous material is discovered within or
adjacent to the Public ROW, Licensee must stop work in that affected area,
immediately notify City of the hazardous material, and report accurately and in
writing the facts of the encounter to City. Work in the affected area will not thereafter
be resumed except by written order of City or until the material is determined not to
be hazardous material or the hazardous material is remediated in compliance with all
applicable laws.

2.15 Network Design and Scope. Nothing in this Agreement requires Licensee to build to
all areas of City, and Licensee retains the discretion to determine the scope, location,
and timing of the design and construction of the Network. Licensee, at its sole
discretion, may determine separately defined geographic areas with City where its
Network Facilities will be deployed, and City will be available to consult with Licensee
regarding the boundaries of City’s recognized neighborhood associations and City’s
goals of equity and inclusion.

2.16 Access to Services. Licensee shall not deny service or access, or otherwise
discriminate on the availability, rates, terms, or conditions of Broadband Internet
Services provided to residential subscribers on the basis of race, color, creed,
religion, ancestry, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, age, familial
status, marital status, or status with regard to public assistance. Licensee shall
comply at all times with all applicable Federal, state, and local laws and regulations
relating to nondiscrimination. Licensee shall not deny or discriminate against any
group of actual or potential residential subscribers in City on access to or the rates,
terms, and conditions of Broadband Internet Services because of the income level or
other demographics of the local area in which such group may be located.

2.17 Public Benefits. Licensee agrees to use good-faith efforts to consult with City on
developing initiatives designed to benefit the public, which may include increasing

License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 6 of 17 &®

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
access to Broadband Internet Services, improving digital literacy, and bridging the
digital divide.

2.18 City Uses of Poles and Overhead Structures. City will have the right, without cost, to
use all above-ground poles owned solely by Licensee within the City for fire alarms,
police signal systems, or any lawful public use; provided, however, any said uses by
City shall be for activities owned, operated or used by City for any public purposes,
and shall not include the provision of communications service to non-governmental
third parties or otherwise in a manner which would commercially compete with
Licensee’s operations and services and provided that such City use does not
substantially interfere with Licensee’s operations and services.

2.19 Limitations on Use Rights. Nothing in this Agreement will be construed to require
Licensee to increase pole capacity, alter the manner in which Licensee attaches
equipment to the poles, or alter the manner in which Licensee operates and
maintains its equipment. Such City attachments shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with the reasonable requirements of Licensee and the then-current
National Electrical Safety Code. City attachments shall be attached or installed only
after written approval by Licensee, which approval will be processed in a timely
manner and will not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.

2.20 Maintenance of City Facilities. City’s use rights shall also be subject to the parties
reaching a written agreement regarding the maintenance of the City attachments.

3. Relocation, Removal, Expiration, Revocation, and Inspection.

3.1 Emergency Removal or Relocation by City. In the event of a public emergency that
creates an imminent threat to the health, safety, or property of City its residents or
businesses, City may remove or relocate the applicable portions of the Network
Facilities without prior notice to Licensee. City will, however, make best efforts to
provide prior notice to Licensee before making an emergency removal or relocation.
In any event, City will promptly provide to Licensee a written description of any
emergency removals or relocations of Licensee’s Network Facilities. Licensee will
reimburse City for its actual, reasonable, and documented costs or expenses incurred
for any such work performed by City. Licensee’s obligation to reimburse City under
this subsection is separate from Licensee’s obligation to pay the License Fee (as
defined below).

3.2 Removal of Abandoned Network Facilities. If Licensee abandons or fails to use any
portions of its Network Facilities for one year or more (“Abandoned Network
Facilities”), Licensee will notify City and will remove any above-ground facilities at its
own expense at City’s request within a commercially reasonable period of time. City
and Licensee will discuss whether underground facilities should be abandoned in
place or transferred to City, at City’s option. Abandoned Network Facilities do not
include Network Facilities intended for emergency use, redundant Network Facilities,
or Network Facilities intended to meet future demand or capacity needs.

3.3 Relocation to Accommodate Governmental Purposes. If Licensee’s existing Network
Facilities would interfere with City’s planned use of the Public ROW or other City
property for a legitimate governmental purpose, such as construction, (including
widening or relocation of all or part of a Public ROW), installation, repair, maintenance,

License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 7 of 17 &®

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
or operation of water, sewer, or storm drain line/facilities, public roads or curb, gutter
and sidewalk, parks, and recreational facilities, Licensee will, upon written notice from
City, relocate its Network Facilities at Licensee’s sole cost and expense to such other
location or locations in the Public ROW as may be mutually agreed by the parties,
taking into account the needs of the City’s governmental purpose and Licensee’s
interest in maintaining the integrity and stability of its Network. Licensee will relocate
its Network Facilities within a commercially reasonable period of time agreed to by the
parties, taking into account the urgency of the need for relocation, the difficulty of the
relocation, and other relevant facts and circumstances, except that City may not
require Licensee to relocate or remove its Network Facilities with less than one
hundred and eighty (180) days’ notice.

3.4 Relocation to Accommodate Commercial Purposes. If Licensee’s existing Network
Facilities would interfere with City’s planned use of the Public ROW or City property
fora commercial purpose, or with a third-party’s use of the Public ROW, Licensee will
not be required to relocate its Network Facilities unless City or the third party enters
into an agreement with Licensee under which City or the third party would, at a
minimum: (a) identify and arrange for a new location for Licensee’s Network Facilities
that is acceptable to Licensee, (b) agree to a commercially reasonable period of time
for the relocation, which in no event will be less than one hundred and eighty (180)
days; and (c) agree to reimburse all of Licensee’s reasonable direct costs, expenses,
and losses associated with the requested relocation.

3.5 Post-Removal Restoration of Public ROW. When removal or relocation is required
under this Agreement, Licensee will, after the removal or relocation of the Network
Facilities, at its own cost (except to the extent subject to reimbursement pursuant to
Subsection 3.4 hereof), repair and return the Public ROW in which the facilities were
located to a safe and satisfactory condition in accordance with applicable law. Before
proceeding with removal or relocation work, Licensee will obtain from the City a street
excavation permit and follow the City’s ordinances and other applicable law.

3.6 Rights and Duties of Licensee Upon Expiration or Revocation. Upon expiration of the
license granted under this Agreement, whether by lapse of time, by agreement
between Licensee and City, or by revocation or forfeiture as provided herein, Licensee
shall remove from the Public ROW any and all of its Network Facilities and restore the
Public ROW to as good condition as the same was before the removal was effected,
ordinary wear and tear and damages not caused by Licensee excepted. In the
alternative, Licensee may, with the written approval of the City Engineer or City Mayor,
abandon some or all of the Network Facilities in place.

3.7 Inspection by City. Installation of the Network Facilities shall be subject to inspection
by City as provided in the City’s municipal code.

4. Contractors and Subcontractors.

4.1 Use_of Contractors and Subcontractors. Licensee may retain contractors and
subcontractors to perform the Work on Licensee’s behalf.

4.2 Contractors to be Licensed. Licensee’s contractors and subcontractors used for the
Work will be properly licensed under applicable law.

License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 8 of 17 Git

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167

4.3 Authorized Individuals. Licensee’s contractors and subcontractors may submit
individual permit applications to City on Licensee’s behalf, so long as the permit
applications are signed by individuals that Licensee has authorized to act on its behalf
via a letter of authorization provided to City in the form attached as Exhibit “A”
(“Authorized Individuals”). City will accept permit applications under this Agreement
submitted and signed by Authorized Individuals, and will treat those applications as if
they had been submitted by Licensee under this Agreement.

5. Compensation for Use of Public ROW.

5.1 Licensee is not subject to the collection and proper deposit of the Municipal
Telecommunications License Tax with the Utah State Tax Commission pursuant to
the Municipal Telecommunications License Tax Act (Utah Code Ann. 10-1-401 to 10-
1-410), except with respect to any voice-over-internet-protocol (“VoIP”) services it
offers.

5.2 Licensee will pay City a fee (“License Fee”) to compensate City for Licensee’s use
and occupancy of Public ROW pursuant to the License. Licensee and City
acknowledge and agree that the License Fee provides fair and reasonable
compensation for Licensee’s use and occupancy of Public ROW and other City
property as authorized. The License Fee will begin accruing on the Effective Date (as
defined below) and will be calculated as follows:

5.3 License Fee. Licensee will pay City two percent (2%) (the “Revenue Percentage”) of
Gross Revenues for a calendar quarter, remitted on a quarterly basis, commencing
upon the first date on which Licensee receives any Gross Revenues (as defined
below). Such payments are due forty-five (45) days after the end of the calendar
quarter. Following each quarterly payment, Licensee will deliver a report to the City
summarizing the basis of the payment.

5.3.1 As used herein, “Gross Revenues” means all consideration of any kind or
nature, including without limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions
(services or goods) received by Licensee from Customers for Broadband Internet
Services that are provided to Customers through Network Facilities located at least in
part in Public ROW.

5.3.2 Gross Revenues do not include:

(i) any revenue not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt;

(ii) refunds, rebates, or discounts made to Customers or City;

(iii) revenue received from the sale of Broadband Internet Services for
resale in which the purchaser is required to collect and remit similar fees
from the purchaser's customer;

(iv) any forgone revenue from Licensee’s provision of Broadband Internet
Services to Customers at no charge if required by state law;

(v) any tax of general applicability imposed upon Licensee or its Customers
by City or by any state, federal, or any other governmental entity, and

License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 9 of 17 =

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167

required to be collected by Licensee and remitted to the taxing entity
(including but not limited to sales and use tax, gross receipts tax, excise
tax, utility users tax, public service tax, communications taxes, and fees
not imposed by this Agreement); and

(vi) any forgone revenue from Licensee’s provision, in Licensee’s discretion
or otherwise, of free or reduced cost Broadband Internet Services to any
Person; provided, however, that any forgone revenue which Licensee
chooses not to receive in exchange for trades, barters, services, or other
items of value will be included in Gross Revenues.

5.4 Pass Through. Licensee may identify and collect, as a separate item on the regular
bill of any customer whose Broadband Internet Services are provided by Network
Facilities located at least in part in the Public ROW, the License Fee due from that
customer.

5.5 Audit. During the term of this Agreement and in the two-year period following its
termination, City may examine the business records of Licensee as permitted under
state or local law, but in any event only during business hours and following not less
than thirty (30) days’ notice, to the extent reasonably necessary to ensure compliance
with the payment terms of this Agreement (“Business Records”). Licensee shall also
produce Business Records to the City upon 30 days’ written notice from the City in a
form reasonably requested by it, the reasonable cost of which the City shall bear,
subject to the provisions of this Subsection. Licensee will keep all business records of
invoices, Gross Revenues, and payments of gross receipts for at least two (2) years.
City may, in the event of a dispute concerning compensation under this Section 5 and
its subsections, bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction. Unless otherwise
agreed in writing by Licensee, the fees and expenses of performing such examination
and verification, and the reasonable costs of providing records to the City, shall be
borne by the City.

5.6 Government Records Access and Management Act. City is subject to the
requirements of GRAMA. All materials submitted to City by Licensee pursuant to this
Agreement are subject to disclosure unless such materials are exempt from disclosure
under GRAMA. The burden of claiming an exemption from disclosure shall rest solely
with Licensee, and Licensee shall comply with the requirements of GRAMA in
asserting any such exemption. Such materials may be classified as “protected” by
City under GRAMA. City shall make reasonable efforts to notify Licensee of any
requests made for disclosure of documents submitted under a claim of confidentiality.
Licensee may, at Licensee’s sole expense, take any appropriate actions to prevent
disclosure of such material.

5.7 Interest on Late Payments. Any payments that are due and payable under this
Agreement that are not received within fifteen (15) days from the due date will be
assessed interest compounded at the rate of 18% per annum from the due date. All
sums paid with interest within thirty (30) days of the due date shall not constitute a
material breach under Subsection 10.1.

5.8 Change in Law.

License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 10 of 17 &

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167

5.8.1 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event of a change
in local, state, or federal law that (i) prohibits collection of any right-of-way-
access fee from any provider of Broadband Internet Services or (ii) reduces
the percentage of revenue on which the right-of-way-access fee paid by
any provider of Broadband Internet Services is based to a percentage that
is lower than the Revenue Percentage, then Licensee will have no
obligation to pay the License Fee or to pay a Licensee Fee based on the
Revenue Percentage, as the case may be. In the case of a reduction in
the percentage of revenue on which a right-of-way-access fee may be
based, the Revenue Percentage will be commensurately reduced.

5.8.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event of a change
in law that preempts this Agreement and requires or allows an increase to
the percentage of Gross Revenue above the Revenue Percentage which
the City may charge a provider of communications services as a license
fee for use of the Public ROW, then upon the legally required act by the
City’s governing body, Licensee shall upon 60 days’ prior written notice
from the City pay the City such license fee determined by the governing
body to apply to all providers of Broadband Internet Services in the City,
not to exceed the maximum allowed by law.

6. Indemnification.
6.1 Indemnification. Licensee hereby agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless
the City, its officials, officers, employees and insurance carriers, individually and
collectively from all losses, claims, suits, judgments, demands, expenses, subrogation,
reasonable attorney’s fees, costs or actions of any kind and nature resulting from
personal or bodily injury to any person, including employees of Licensee or of any
contractor or subcontractor employed by Licensee (including bodily injury and death)
or damages to any property, arising directly out of the negligent acts or omissions of
Licensee, its contractors, subcontractors, officers, agents and employees while
exercising any of the rights or privileges granted by this Agreement, except for any
loss, injury, or personal or property damage caused by the negligence or willful
misconduct of the City, its officers, agents, and employees and except for any losses,
claims, suits, judgments, demands, expenses, subrogation, attorney’s fees, costs, or
actions arising out of any claim made by City’s employees that are covered under
applicable workers’ compensation laws. This Subsection 6.1 shall survive the
termination of this Agreement.
6.2 City Participation in Litigation. The Licensee shall immediately notify the City of
any litigation which would affect the City’s rights under this Agreement. City shall
promptly notify Licensee in writing of any claim or suit for which City seeks
indemnification and defense by Licensee and request that Licensee indemnify the
City. Licensee will give written notice to City of its acceptance of the defense and
shall be entitled to engage legal counsel of its own choosing. City’s failure to so
notify and request indemnification shall not relieve Licensee of any liability that
Licensee might have, except to the extent that such failure prejudices Licensee’s
ability to defend such claim or suit. In the event that Licensee refuses the tender of
defense in any suit or any claim, as required under the indemnification provisions
contained herein, and that refusal is subsequently determined by a court having
appropriate jurisdiction (or such other tribunal that the Parties agree to decide the
matter), to have been a wrongful refusal on the part of Licensee, Licensee shall pay

License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 11 of 17 Gita

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
all of City’s reasonable costs for defense of the action, including all reasonable
expert witness fees, costs, and attorneys’ fees, and including costs and fees incurred
in recovering under this indemnification provision. City shall have the right, at City’s
sole cost and expense, to employ separate counsel on behalf of City for City to bring
or pursue any counterclaims or interpleader action, equitable relief, restraining order,
or injunction. Each Party agrees to cooperate and to cause its employees and agents
to cooperate with the other Party in the defense of any such claim, and the relevant
records of each Party shall be available to the other party with respect to any such
defense. No compromise or settlement shall be approved or executed without the
prior written consent of City and Licensee, if the compromise or settlement involves
the rights of the other party. If the City refuses a compromise or settlement that has
been approved by Licensee, City shall, at its sole cost and expense, take over the
defense and Licensee shall not be responsible for, nor obligated to indemnify City,
against any cost or liability in excess of such refused compromise or settlement.

7. Limitation of Liability

NEITHER PARTY WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,
CONSEQUENTIAL, EXEMPLARY OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH
THIS AGREEMENT. THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS LIMITATION WILL
BE SUBJECT TO AND MAY BE LIMITED BY APPLICABLE STATE LAW.

8. Performance Bond.

Licensee will, promptly after the Effective Date, provide City with a performance bond in the
amount of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) naming City and MSD as obligees and
guaranteeing Licensee's faithful performance of its obligations under this Agreement. The
performance bond will remain in full force during the Term of this Agreement. The
requirement of a performance bond will not prevent the City from other legal remedies it
may have against the Licensee if it defaults in any of its obligations under this Agreement,
including filing a lawsuit.

9. Insurance.

Licensee will carry and maintain Commercial General Liability (CGL) insurance, with policy
limits not less than $2,000,000 in aggregate and $2,000,000 for each occurrence covering
bodily injury and property damage with the following features: (a) CGL primary insurance
endorsement; and (b) CGL policy will include an endorsement which names City, the MSD,
their employees, and officers as additional insureds. Licensee shall increase the
commercial general liability limits contained herein to cover any increase in the City's and
MSD's potential liability under the Utah Governmental Immunity Act (Utah Code Ann. §
63G-7-101, et. seq.) or successor provision. Upon written request, the Licensee will
provide a Certificate of Insurance showing evidence of the coverage required by this
subsection.

10. Effective Date and Term.

This Agreement is effective for fifteen (15) years beginning on the date the last party to
sign executes this Agreement ("Effective Date"). The License will expire automatically
on the fifteenth anniversary of the Effective Date (“Original Term"), unless Licensee
provides written notice of its intent to renew to City at least six (6) months prior to

License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 12 of 17 Gite

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
expiration and City does not object after thirty (30) days. The renewal term will be for five
(5) years, and the same renewal process may be used for successive 5-year terms.

11. Termination.

11.1 Termination by City. City may terminate this Agreement if Licensee is in material breach
of the Agreement, provided that City must first provide Licensee written notice of the
breach and thirty (30) days to cure, unless the cure cannot reasonably be
accomplished in that time period, in which case Licensee must commence its efforts
to cure within that time period and the cure period shall continue as long as such
diligent efforts continue. No termination under this paragraph will be effective until the
relevant cure period has expired.

11.2 Termination by Licensee. Licensee may terminate this Agreement for convenience
upon one hundred eighty (180) days’ written notice to City.

12 Assignment. Except as set forth below, neither party may assign or transfer its rights or
obligations under this Agreement, in whole or part, to a third party, without the written consent of
the other party. Any agreed-upon assignee will take the place of the assigning party, and the
assigning party will be released from all of its rights and obligations upon such assignment.

12.1 Notwithstanding the foregoing, Licensee may at any time, on written notice to City,
assign this Agreement and/or any or all of its rights and obligations under this
Agreement:

12.1.1 to any Affiliate (as defined below) of Licensee;

12.1.2 to any purchaser of all or substantially all of Licensee’s Network Facilities in
City if Licensee determines after a reasonable investigation that the purchaser has the
resources and ability to fulfill the obligations of this Agreement;
12.1.3 subject to City’s consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned,
or delayed, Licensee may assign to any successor in interest of Licensee’s business
operations in City in connection with any merger, acquisition, or similar transaction if
Licensee determines after a reasonable investigation that the successor in interest has
the resources and ability to fulfill the obligations of this Agreement.

12.2 Following any assignment of this Agreement to an Affiliate, Licensee will remain
responsible for such Affiliate’s performance under the terms of this Agreement. For
purposes of this Agreement, (i) “Affiliate” means any Person that now or in the future,
directly or indirectly controls, is controlled with or by, or is under common control with
Licensee; and (ii) “control” means, with respect to: (a) a U.S. corporation, the
ownership, directly or indirectly, of fifty percent (50%) or more of the voting power to
elect directors thereof, or (b) a non-U.S. corporation, if the voting power to elect
directors thereof is less than fifty percent (50%), the maximum amount allowed by
applicable law; and (c) any other Person, fifty percent (50%) or more ownership
interest in said Person, or the power to direct the management of such Person.

13. Notice.
License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 13 of 17 Gite

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
All notices related to this Agreement will be in writing and sent, if to Licensee to the email
addresses set forth below, and if to City to the following addresses: WCMT, 10467 So.
Carnation Drive, White City, UT 84094, General Manager, MSD, 2001 South State, Salt Lake
City, UT 84190, with email copies to paulina-flint@whitecity-ut-.org and
phashton@xmisson.com. Notices are effective (a) when delivered in person, (b) upon
confirmation of a receipt when transmitted by facsimile transmission or by electronic mail, (c)
on the next business day if transmitted by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid (with
confirmation of delivery), (d) on the next business day if transmitted by overnight courier (with
confirmation of delivery), or (e) three (3) days after the date of mailing, whichever is earlier.

Licensee’s e-mail address for notice is googlefibernotices@google.com, with a copy to legal-
notices@google.com.

14. Meet and Discuss. Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, before City or

Licensee brings an action or claim before any court or regulatory body arising out of a duty or

right arising under this Agreement, Licensee and City shall first make a good-faith effort to resolve

their dispute by discussion.

15. General Provisions. This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Utah

without regard to conflicts of laws principles. Any claim or lawsuit arising out of this Agreement

must be brought in the Third District Court pursuant to the laws of the State of Utah, or in the

U.S. District Court for the State of Utah located in Salt Lake County, Utah. Neither party will be

liable for failure or delay in performance to the extent caused by circumstances beyond its

reasonable control. The parties agree to meet at reasonable times on reasonable notice to
discuss this Agreement or Licensee's provision of Broadband Internet Services during the term
of the Agreement. This Agreement sets out all terms agreed between the parties and
supersedes all previous or contemporaneous agreements between the parties relating to its
subject matter. The failure of a party to insist upon strict adherence to any term of this

Agreement on any occasion will not be considered a waiver of such party's rights or deprive

such party of the right thereafter to insist upon strict adherence to that term or any other term of

this Agreement. This Agreement, including any exhibits, constitutes the entire agreement
between the parties related to this subject matter, and any change to its terms must be in writing
and signed by the parties. This Agreement is not intended to and will not be construed to give
any third party any interest or rights (including, without limitation, any third party beneficiary
rights) with respect to or in connection with any agreement or provision contained herein or
contemplated hereby. The parties may execute this Agreement in counterparts, including
facsimile, PDF, and other electronic copies, which taken together will constitute one instrument.

Each party to this Agreement agrees that Licensee may use electronic signatures.

16. Warranty of Authorization; Binding on Successors and Assigns. The person

signing for and on behalf of Licensee warrants and represents that he or she is duly authorized

and empowered to enter into this agreement for and on behalf of Licensee, and that Licensee is
duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Utah, and that by his or her
signature, he or she does bind Licensee to the terms of this Agreement. The person signing
below for Licensee warrants to the City that all necessary company approvals, authorizations
and consents have been obtained, and all company procedures required to be taken have been
followed to enable Licensee to enter into this Agreement and to perform its duties hereunder.

This Agreement is binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties.

17. Governmental Immunity. City is a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah,

subject to the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah (the "Act"), Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-7-101 to

License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 14 of 17 &D

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
- 904, as amended. The parties agree that City will only be liable within the parameters of the
Act. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed in any way, to modify the limits of
liability set forth in that Act or the basis for liability as established in the Act.
Signed by authorized representatives of the parties on the dates written below.
Google Fiber Utah, LLC White City Metro Township
a bua. Po Lai?
5 2022.01.07 Lb <
"Philipp Sehindler Authorized Signature) Mayor Paulina Flint
Autor ed Siemtery 07:53:02 -08'00' ( . g ) y
Paulina F. Flint
(Name)
Mayor
(Authorized Signature) (Title)
Address: White City Metro Township
10467 S. Carnation Dr
(Name) White City, Utah 840094
Date: 01-04-2022
(Title)
Address: _ APPROVED TO FORM;
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View, CA 94043
City Attorne
Date: Y y
License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 15 of 17 &®

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 16 of 17 &D

EXECUTION COPY Google Fiber Contract No. 850167
EXHIBIT “A”
FORM OF LETTER OF AUTHORIZATION
|

Via Email ({Email Address])
White City Metro Township
Re: [Amended] Letter of Authorization
Dear [Name],
In accordance with Section 4.3 of the License Agreement dated___—_ between White City Metro
Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC (“Google Fiber’), Google Fiber hereby designates the
following Authorized Individuals (as that term is defined in the Agreement), who may submit and
sign permit applications and other submissions to the City on behalf of Google Fiber.
{Insert name and title for each Authorized Individual, including any Authorized Individual
previously named and whose authority continues. Strike through the names of any individuals
who are no longer authorized, if any.}

1. Name, Title

2. Name, Title

3. Name, Title (previously authorized, authorization continues)

4. Name —Hte (authorization withdrawn)
This authorization may be withdrawn or amended and superseded by a written amendment to
this Letter of Authorization, which will be effective 24 hours after receipt by the City.
Kind regards,
[Name]
Manager, Google Fiber Utah, LLC
License Agreement Between White City Metro Township and Google Fiber Utah, LLC | Page 17 of 17 &®
