WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO: 21-11-02 DATE: November 18, 2021
A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ADOPTING A CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS PLAN (COOP)
WHEREAS, it is the mission of the White City Metro Township, ensure, its operations are
performed efficiently with minimal disruption, especially during an emergency;
WHEREAS, this document provides planning and program guidance for implementing the
Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) to ensure the White City Metro Township is capable of
conducting its daily operations under all threats and conditions;
WHEREAS, this CONTINUITY PLAN (COOP) has been developed in accordance with
guidance in Executive Order 12656, Assignment of Emergency Preparedness Responsibilities;
National Security Presidential Directive 51/Homeland Security Presidential Directive 20,
National Continuity Policy; Homeland Security Council, National Continuity Policy
Implementation Plan; Federal Continuity Directive 1, Federal Executive Branch National
Continuity Program and Requirements, October 2012;
r)
WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township desires to adopt a COOP in the interest of
public health, safety and welfare.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE WHITE CITY METRO
TOWNSHIP COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Adoption of a Continuity of Operations Plan. The White City Metro Township
Council hereby adopts the Continuity of Operations Plan attached hereto as Exhibit A.
Section 2. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
passage.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the White City Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah
this 18" day of November 2021.
BY: A? hic & LEA
PAULINA F. FLINT, MAYOR
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY

ATTEST:
SHERRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER
VOTE BY COUNCIL: AYE NAY
MAYOR FLINT xX
COUNCIL MEMBER PRICE Xx
COUNCIL MEMBER CARDENAZ = EXCUSED _
COUNCIL MEMBER LITTLE xX _
COUNCIL MEMBER PERRY X

White City Metro Township Continuity Plan
Spee A
oa %
&o, <u
os 2 gn
© TOWNSHIP, UTA
Continuity Plan for
White City Metro Township
October 2021
White City Metro Township, 10467 S. Carnation Dr., White City, UT 84094 (801) 572-5257

White City Metro Township Continuity Plan
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

White City Metro Township Continuity Plan
TABLE OF CONTENTS
V. PURPOSE, SCOPE, SITUATIONS, AND ASSUMPTIONS ...........::cccccsseeeseetteeeeeeesseesseanseeeeeee
VI. DIRECTION, CONTROL, AND COORDINATION .........cccccccsseeecesteeseeeteeesersteeserttseestseeee LD
IX. BUDGETING AND ACQUISITION OF RESOURCEG...........:.::ceeseesecetseeeeeerenseeesettneresseeres LO
X. MULTI-YEAR STRATEGY AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT PLAN (MYSPMP) ...........-----16
XII. ORGANIZATION AND ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES 1.0.0.0... cceeeeesesssseteeeeeeeeeee LZ
ANNEX A. IDENTIFICATION OF CONTINUITY PERSONNEL ........cccccccsecstesesestteeesesteeseeteeeee LO
ANNEX B. ESSENTIAL RECORDS MANAGEMENT ...........:cccscsesesesssesseeesestesessesseesseeestsseeseeeees LO
ANNEXE. TEST, TRAINING, AND EXERCISES PROGRAM ............:secsscessecssserssaseceeerertreeeresesens 22

BASIC PLAN
|. PROMULGATION STATEMENT
The White City Metro Township’s mission is to ensure its operations are performed
efficiently with minimal disruption, especially during an emergency. This document
provides planning and program guidance for implementing the White City Metro
Township Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) to ensure the organization is
capable of conducting its daily operations under all threats and conditions.
At the time of an emergency that threatens the White City Metro Township, and the
activation of this plan, the Chief Elected Executive or his/her designee, will decide to
activate the internet Zoom platform or relocate to an identified Continuity Relocation
Site. The White City Metro Township designee must establish check in with the
GSLMSD within 12 hours from the time of the activation of the COOP, for up to a
30-day period, or until normal operations can be resumed.
This Plan has been developed in accordance with guidance in Executive Order
12656, Assignment of Emergency Preparedness Responsibilities; National Security
Presidential Directive 51/Homeland Security Presidential Directive 20, National
Continuity Policy; Homeland Security Council, National Continuity Policy
Implementation Plan; Federal Continuity Directive 1, Federal Executive Branch
National Continuity Program and Requirements, October 2012;
Promulgatedthis__ day of 2021
Name Title
Name Title
Name Title
Name sss Tile
Name Title

Il. ANNUAL REVIEW
The Chief Elected Executive of the White City Metro Township, or his/her designee, is
responsible for the overall maintenance (review and update) of this COOP and for
ensuring that changes and revision are prepared, coordinated, published, and
distributed.
This COOP will be reviewed and updated annually. Any changes will be based on
deficiencies identified in simulated or actual use or due to organizational or
technological changes.
Ill. RECORD OF CHANGES
Any changes or revisions to the COOP will be forwarded to the White City Metro
Township Chief Elected Executive and to all members of the White City Metro
Township Council.
. Date of individual Making —_
Change Number Section Change change Description of Change
IV. RECORD OF DISTRIBUTION
The COOP will be distributed to the White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive,
and all members of the White City Metro Township Council. The name and title of
receiver will be entered.
Date of heise of Copies Method of Delivery Name, Title, and of Receiver
Delivery Delivered
prec csrrenee ff Fe

PURPOSE, SCOPE, SITUATIONS, AND ASSUMPTIONS

A. PURPOSE
The purpose of the White City Metro Township COOP is to ensure that the daily
operations are performed efficiently with minimal disruption, especially during an
emergency. This document provides planning and program guidance for implementing
the COOP to ensure the White City Metro Township is capable of conducting its business
under all threats and conditions.
B. SCOPE
This COOP applies to the daily business operations of White City Metro Township in the
event its normal operations are disrupted or threatened with disruption. This COOP
applies to all White City Metro Township elected officials. These elected officials must
be familiar with Continuity policies and procedures and their respective Continuity roles
and responsibilities.
Cc. SITUATION OVERVIEW
According to NSPD 51/HSPD 20, it is the policy of the United States to maintain a
comprehensive and effective Continuity capability composed of Continuity of Operations
and Continuity of Government programs in order to ensure the preservation of our form
of government under the Constitution and the continuing performance of National
Essential Functions under all conditions.
Further, Continuity planning must be based on the assumption that organizations will not
receive warning of an impending emergency. Asa result, a risk assessment is essential to
focusing Continuity planning.
The White City Metro Township COOP was developed following an all-hazards risk
assessment of their Township. The White City Metro Township risk assessment can be
located in the White City Metro Township Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) Binder.
The risk assessments addresses the following:

e Identification of all hazards

e Avulnerability assessment to determine the effects of all hazards

e Acost-benefit analysis of implementing risk mitigation, prevention, or control

measures
e Sufficient levels of physical security required to protect against identified threats
e Sufficient levels of information security required to protect against identified threats

D. PLANNING ASSUMPTIONS
This COOP is based on the following assumptions:

e During emergency conditions or declaration, the White City Metro Township need
to identify their Continuity Relocation Site (CRS), develop secure communications
with the GSLMSD and the Emergency Coordination Center for Salt Lake County.

e The White City Metro Township CRS should be able to support the continuation
of their Essential Functions, using all available communications and information
systems within 12 hours or less from the time the COOP is activated, for
potentially up to a 30-day period, or until normal operations can be resumed.

e lf the GSLMSD relocates due to the emergency, the White City Metro Township
will reestablish communications with the GSLMSD at its CRS.

e The White City Metro Township will identify a representative who will respond to
the GSLMSD CRS, if requested.

E. OBJECTIVES
The White City Metro Township Continuity objectives are:

1) Execute a successful activation of this COOP.

2) Asuccession with the GSLMSD in the event a disruption renders White City Metro
Township leadership unable, unavailable, or incapable of assuming and performing
their authorities and responsibilities of the office.

3) Reduce or mitigate disruptions to operations.

4) Achieve White City Metro Township’s timely and orderly recovery and
reconstitution from an emergency.

5) Ensure and validate Continuity readiness through a dynamic and integrated Continuity
Testing, Training, and Exercise program and operational capability

F. SECURITY AND PRIVACY STATEMENT

This COOP is For Official Use Only. Portions of this COOP contain information that raises
personal privacy or other concerns, and those portions may be exempt from mandatory
disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (see 5 U.S.C §552, 41 CFR Part 105-60).
it is to be controlled, stored, handled, transmitted, distributed, and disposed of in
accordance with Salt Lake County Ordinance Chapter 2.82 - RECORDS MANAGEMENT,
and is not to be released to the public or other personnel who do not have a valid “need
to know” without prior approval of the Town or Township Chief Elected Executive, or
his/her designee.

Hf 9]

White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive will distribute copies of the COOP
ona “Need to Know” basis. Copies of this COOP will be distributed to Town or
Township Elected Officials, via hard copy. If an electronic copy is requested, the COOP
will be distributed electronically by the White City Metro Township Chief Elected
Executive only. A copy of this COOP will also be available for reading only, on the White
City Metro Township’s website. In addition, the Manager of the GSLMSD and the Salt
Lake County Division of Emergency Management (SLCo DEM) will receive copies of this
COOP. Further, the Chief Elected Executive will distribute updated versions of the COOP
as critical changes occur.
CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS
This section explains how the White City Metro Township will implement its COOP and,
specifically, how it plans to address each of the Continuity critical elements. There are four
phases in this section. They are Readiness and Preparedness; Activation; Continuity
Facility Operations; and, Reconstitution. Devolution (transfer of authority) and planning
strongly correlates in each phase and are addressed in this section.
A. READINESS AND PREPAREDNESS
White City Metro Township shall participate in a full spectrum of Readiness and
Preparedness activities to ensure its elected officials can continue with their daily
duties in an all-hazard risk environment.
Readiness and Preparedness
White City Metro Township preparedness incorporates the one key component that
is levels of readiness, monitoring. The monitoring of readiness levels of the SLCo DEM
will help the Chief Executive in preparation for an emergency.
The White City Metro Township recognizes the three levels of readiness established by
the SLCo DEM.
COGCON _
Level Activity Frequency
Level 3 Activation of COOP for Town or Township in response to overall Rarely
county emergency
Activation of COOP if Town or Township is affected
Monitor Emergency conditions |Often sd
ee Seen ae

Readiness and Preparedness
White City Metro Township elected officials must also prepare for a Continuity event. The
elected officials should plan what to do in case of an emergency and should develop a
Family Support Plan to increase personal and family preparedness. To develop this Family
Support Plan, the following templates available at www.ready.gov. This site includes a
“Get Ready Now” pamphlet, which explains the importance of planning and provides a
template that can use to develop a specific plan.
White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive will develop a roster of elected
officials needed for delegation of authority. That roster shall be maintained and updated
quarterly. That roster shall be shared with the GSLMSD and the SLCo DEM.
White City Metro Township elected official designated to respond to the designated
Relocation Site on request during a COOP activation, has the responsibility to create and
maintain drive-away kit with recommendations what it should contain. The items are
identified in the table below. These kits should be maintained and inventoried yearly by the
official designated.
SAMPLE: Drive Away Kit
The following table shows possible items to recommend for Continuity drive-away kits.
Drive Away Kit
e Identification and charge cards e Business and personal contact numbers
o Government ID card o Emergency phone numbers and addresses
o  Driver’s license (relatives, medical doctor, pharmacist)
o Government travel card e Toiletries
o Health insurance card e Chargers/extra batteries for phones, GPS, and
o Personal charge card laptop
e¢ Communication equipment e Bottled water and non-perishable food (i.e.,
o  Pager/BlackBerry granola, dried fruit, etc.)
o Government cell phone ® Medical needs
o Personal cell phone o Insurance information
o Government Emergency o List of allergies/blood type
Telephone Services o Hearing aids and extra batteries
° card o Glasses and contact lenses
e Hand-carried essential records o Extra pair of eyeglasses/contact lenses
e Directions to Continuity Facility © Prescription drugs (30-day supply)
e Maps of surrounding area o Over-the-counter medications, dietary
e Business and leisure clothing supplements
e Continuity Plan e [Insert additional recommended items]
The White City Metro Township shall conduct a yearly Continuity Readiness and
Preparedness exercise.
a

B. ACTIVATION

To ensure the ability to attain operational capability, with minimal disruption at CRS, the
White City Metro Township has developed activation steps, which are captured in the
following sections.

Decision Process

Based on the type and severity of the emergency, the White City Metro Township COOP may
be activated by the following method:

e The White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designated
successor, may initiate the COOP activation based on an emergency or threat
directed at the Town or Township;

The COOP activation is a scenario-driven process that allows flexible and scalable responses
to the full spectrum of emergencies and other events that could disrupt daily operations with
or without warning. The COOP activation is not required for all emergencies and disruptive
situations since other actions may be deemed appropriate.

As the decision authority, the White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her
designee, will keep informed of the threat environment using all available means, which may
include SLCo DEM intelligence reports, national/local reporting channels, and the news
media. The White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive or his/her designee will
evaluate, with the Manager of the GSLMSD, all available information relating to:

e Direction and guidance from higher authorities;

e Changes in readiness or advisory levels;

e Intelligence reports;

e The potential or actual effects on communication systems and information
systems;

e The expected duration of the emergency.

Alert and Notification Procedures

The White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive or his/her designee, will maintain
communications and coordinating prior to an event, with the other elected officials of the
White City Metro Township, by monitoring advisory information, which may including the
updates from the SLCo DEM, Salt Lake County Health Department, and the GSLMSD. In the
event normal operations are interrupted, or if an incident appears imminent, the White City
Metro Township Chief Elected Executive or his /her designee will take the following steps:

e Notify the SLCo Emergency Manager or the Watch Desk of COOP Activation,

e Notify the GSLMSD Manager or their designee, of their COOP activation,

e Contact all White City Metro Township Council members, advising them of the
activation of the COOP,

e Notify the designated representative from the White City Metro Township body
who, if requested, will respond to the designated CRS, or activate a Council
Meeting through the internet media process such as Zoom.

eee ae 12 ee

Relocation Process

e Following activation of the COOP the White City Metro Township Chief Elected
Executive, or his or her designee, must be prepared to secure and access all essential
records for an internet Zoom meeting or at the designated CRS, if necessary.

e If the decision is to move to the designated CRS, the White City Metro Township Chief
Elected Executive or his/her designee will move by their own choice of transportation, or
set a time and date for an internet media Zoom platform meeting for the White City
Metro Township Council.

e Ensure security and safety of the CRS

C. CONTINUITY OPERATIONS

The Chief Elected Official or his/her designee has the decision to choose which COOP

relocation and operations that best suit the township during the emergency. They are:

1. Activation of the Internet Media platform for Zoom Meeting

On activation of the internet media process Zoom the White City Metro Township

representative will:

e Contact all Township Council members of media site, date, and time of internet
meeting;

e Notify White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee,
of a status update;

e Comply with any additional Continuity reporting requirements;

e Notify family members, next of kin, and emergency contacts of preferred contact
methods and information.

2. Arrival at the White City Metro Township CRS

If the decision is to move to a CRS, designated in the COOP, the White City Metro

Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee, and Council will continue daily

operations until ordered to cease operations by their representative at the CRS.

On arrival at the White City Metro Township CRS, the Chief Elected Executive or his/her

designate will:

e Secure all communications and internet capabilities

e Report immediately to the White City Metro Township that the CRS is
operational, documents secured, and to cease all operations

e Contact GSLMSD Manager, or his/her designate and advise them that the CRS is
operational and functional

e Contact the SLCo DEM and advise them of the relocation and secure
communications

e Ensure that the CRS has enough supplies and logistical support to continue
operations for the next 12 to 30 day

e Advise all other White City Metro Township Elected Officials, of the move, then
wait for further guidance.

——— es | 13 — EE

D. RECONSTITUTION OPERATIONS
Within 12 hours of an emergency relocation, the White City Metro Township Chief Elected
Executive, or his/her designee, will check in with the Manager of the GSLMSD, and the SLCo
EM, to decide if normal operations can be resumed. The White City Metro Township Chief
Elected Executive, or his/her designee, will then notify all other elected officials that the
emergency or threat of emergency has passed and that the White City Metro Township
as returned to normal operations.
The White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee, will identify
any records and databases, affected by the incident and will effectively transition or recover
those essential records and databases.
Record Transition Procedure
e Identify key records needed to continue White City Metro Township operations
e Identify how those records are to be transported, either physically or
electronically
e Identify how the records will be accessed once the White City Metro Township is
up and operational

The White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee, shall oversee
the orderly transition of all records back to the White City Metro Township once the
emergency has passed.
After the emergency or disaster, the White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive
will identify lessons learned, best practices, and improvement needs. An After-Action
Report/Improvement meeting will be held with the Township elected officials and a
representative from the GSLMSD, for the purposes of summarizing the event; identifying
opportunities to improve and enhance the organization’s COOP program, plans, and,
developing an approach to implementing improvements. The White City Metro Township
Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee, has the responsibility for initiating and
completing an After-Action Report (AAR). A copy of the After Action Report is located in the
Annex G of this plan.

DEVOLUTION OF CONTROL AND DIRECTION

The White City Metro Township is prepared to transfer all of their responsibilities to the

GSLMSD should the events of the emergency render leadership or staff unavailable to

support the COOP. If deployment of White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive

or his/her representative is not feasible due to the unavailability, inability to communicate,

or temporary loss of leadership, the leadership of White City Metro Township will devolve

to the GSLMSD Manager or his/her designee. The White City Metro Township Chief

Elected Executive maintains responsibility for ensuring the currency of the White City

Metro Township Devolution Plan.

The White City Metro Township Devolution decision-making process, or transfer of

authority, includes the following:

e The White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive will determine if they or his/her
designee is unavailable to move to the CRS, the Devolution Plan is to be activated or
“triggered”.

e The White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee, will
then confer with the White City Metro Township Council, if possible, and the
Manager of the GSLMSD, to determine how and when direction and control of the
White City Metro Township operations will be transferred.

e The White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee, will establish
and maintain a capability to restore or reconstitute White City Metro Township
authorities to their pre-event status upon termination of Devolution.

White City Metro Township will conduct and document annual training of Devolution. This

exercise or training will be documented to include the dates of all training events and names

of participating Council members. The Devolution training documentation will be
maintained with the White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive and with the

GSLMSD Manager. Further, the White City Metro Township Corrective Action Program

(CAP) will also be developed. All corrective actions identified in the CAP will be maintained

by the White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, with a copy for the Manager of the

GSLMSD.

——— eee [ 15 ee -

Direction, Control, and Coordination
During an activation of the COOP, the White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive
or his/her designate, will work with the GSLMSD leadership to continue daily operations.
Should the White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive becomes unavailable or
incapacitated; the organization will follow the directions in Annex. D for Orders of
Succession, and Delegations of Authority.
The contents and procedures laid forth in this COOP are consistent with the direction
found in the White City Metro Township EOP, GSLMSD EOP, and the SLCo EOP. Asa result,
this COOP and its concepts are integrated horizontally with local and county agencies.
Further, the COOP is to be reviewed and to be vetted by the White City Metro Township
Chief Elected Executive, White City Metro Township Council Members, the GSLMSD
Manager, or his/her designate, and the SLCo DEM, to ensure vertical integration.
Communications
All previously identified White City Metro Township communications and IT capabilities
must be operational as soon as possible following COOP activation and, in all cases, within
12 hours.
Budgeting and Acquisition
The White City Metro Township shall identify and budget for:
e Those items necessary to carry out the COOP Mission,
e The CRS “Go Kit” which is the responsibility of the individual identified as the
representative who will respond to the CRS or the GSLMSD CRS,
e The White City Metro Township will identify those non-personal items for the “Go
Kit” and include them in their budget as part of the COOP,
e The White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive or his/her designate, shall
identify the person(s) to do the yearly audit and identify any items to be replaced.
MULTI-YEAR STRATEGY AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT PLAN (MYSPMP)
White City Metro Township has developed a Multi-Year Strategy and Program
Management Plan (MYSPMP) that provides for the development, maintenance, and
annual review of COOP. A copy of the MYSPMP will be located with the White City Metro
Township at their offices 8952 W. White City Main Street, White City, UT 84044.
Plan Development and Maintenance
The White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designate, is
responsible for maintaining the White City Metro Township COOP.
This COOP will be reviewed by the White City Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, the
White City Metro Township Council members, and updated annually from the date of
er OE | ee Sener ae
. }

publication. The plan will be updated or amended when; there are significant
organizational, procedural changes; or other events that affect Continuity processes or
procedures.
ORGANIZATION AND ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES
The White City Metro Township will designate, by vote of White City Metro
Township Council, a designee who will respond to set up the White City Metro
Township internet Zoom platform, or move to the CRS.
DIRECTION, CONTROL, AND COORDINATION
All direction, control, and coordination of this plan will be with the White City Metro
Township Chief Elected Executive or his/her designate, working with the Manager of the
GSLMSD Manager, or his/her designee.
COMMUNICATIONS
All communications for the COOP will be identified by the White City Metro Township Chief
Elected Executive, in agreement with the White City Metro Township Council members.
Any and all forms of communications will be used by the White City Metro Township Chief
Elected Executive, or his/her designee, including:
e Cell Phone
® Internet
e Satellite Phone
AUTHORITIES AND REFERENCES
Federal Emergency Management Agency Continuity of Operations Plan guidelines
Utah State Emergency Operations Plan
Salt Lake County Emergency Operations Plan
Salt Lake County Continuity of Operations Plan

ANNEX A. IDENTIFICATION OF CONTINUITY PERSONNEL

Identified below are the essential personnel to the COOP, their titles, and contact
information.

Title/ Position Name Telephone Numbers
Paulina Flint (801)571-5257
DEPUTY MAYOR (801)419-3013
Council Member Allan Perry (801)884-8607
Council Member Phillip Cardenez 916-397-6104
Council Member 801-562-1459
County Sheriff 801-743-7000

tf Pe

ANNEX B. ESSENTIAL RECORDS MANAGEMENT
Identify and list those files, records, or databases that are vital to the Town or Township daily
operations.
Form of . .
Reese Hand Carried to Multiple
Essential Record, (e Continuity Storage Maintenance
File, or Database B+ Facility Location(s) Frequency
hardcopy,
. Y/N
electronic)
AllRecords andFiles | Electronic | N/A | = ON S| ~——sMonthly —_—
}
Sa | 19 }+—

ANNEX C. LEADERSHIP AND STAFF
1. ORDERS OF SUCCESSION
The order of succession is:
1. Chief Elected Executive (Mayor) of the White City Metro Township;
2. Deputy Chief Elected Executive (Mayor Pro Tem) of White City Metro Township;
3. Council Members of White City Metro Township selected as designee
2. DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
The delegation of authority for the White City Metro Township, with all decision making
authority, shall be:
e The White City Metro Township Mayor;
e The White City Metro Township Mayor Pro Tem;
e Any White City Metro Township Council Member ;
® Salt Lake County Sheriff
ef 3g ee
\. J

ANNEX D. RELOCATION SITES FOR WHITE CITY METRO
TOWNSHIP
Confirmation
Location Address Contact number Initials or
Signature
}
ee 21 +e qc

ANNEXE. TEST, TRAINING, AND EXERCISES PROGRAM
List the training and exercise program for the White City Metro Township.
— : As
Continuity TT&E Requirements Monthly Quarterly Annually Required
eee | | (ee
eee t—t—~SC SCC
ee
eS | ee ee ee
es See ee eee eee
eS ET! SD! Se) le
at _t_d
pe ET Ee
a ess Se ee Ree
| A | |
es ee) ee ee ee,
Confirmation
Event Event Type and Purpose Date Initials or
Signature
Participants Office Phone/Email
A a) |
a ee
ne ry nen ne

ANNEX F. AUTHORITIES AND REFERENCES
Federal
National Security Presidential Directive 51
Homeland Security Presidential Directive 20, National Continuity Policy
Homeland Security Council, National Continuity Policy Implementation Plan
Federal Continuity Directive 1, Federal Executive Branch National Continuity Program and
Requirements, October 2012
State
Utah State Emergency Operations Plan
Utah State Continuity of Operations Plan
County
2019 Salt Lake County Emergency Operations Plan
Salt Lake County Continuity of Operations Plan
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Continuity of Operations Plan

ANNEX G. ACRONYMNS
ARES — Amateur Radio Emergency
Services
COG — Continuity of Government
CFR — Code of Federal
Regulations
COOP — Continuity of Operations
Plan
EMAC — Emergency Management Assistance Compact
EMS — Emergency Medical Services
EOC - Emergency Operations
Center
EOP - Emergency Operations
Plan
ESF - Emergency Support
Function
FEMA - Federal Emergency Management
Agency
GSLMSD — Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Haz Mat - Hazardous Materials
HSPD- Homeland Security Presidential
ICS - Incident Command System
ICP - Incident Command
Post
JIC - Joint Information
Center
JIS - Joint Information
System
NIMS — National Incident Management
System
NRF — National Response Framework

Emergency Management/Homeland Security
After-Action Report/
Higher Education Regional
Improvement Plan (AAR/IP) Academic Collaborative Region V
SARA — Superfund Amendment and
Reauthorization Act
SOP — Standard Operating Procedures
TRAX — Light Rail System
UVDD—Utah Valley Dispatch District
VECC - Valley Emergency Communications
Center
WFZ — Wasatch Fault Zone
WVFZ — Wasatch Valley Fault Zone
|
$$ SSS
Ul

Emergency Management/Homeland Security
After-Action Report/
Higher Education Regional

Improvement Plan (AAR/IP) Academic Collaborative Region V

ANNEX H. AFTER ACTION REPORT
After-Action Report and Improvement Plan
(Date)
This After-Action Report is a comprehensive report of actions taken, resource requests, and
activities that the representative from your Town, Township, or the Greater Salt Lake Municipal
Services District participated in.
This report was prepared by: (Name and Organization)

ii

Incident Name and Date
After-Action Report/ Improvement Plan (AAR/IP)
Table of Contents

Table of Contents i

After Action Report 2

Executive Summary 2

Successes and Areas of Improvement 3

Appendix A: Participants 4

!

ee
After Action Report
Incident Name Name of the incident
Engagement
Day, Month, Year
Dates
| scope | A brief explanation of the incident, location, your activation
GOnntor Organization Name (eg. Town, Township, Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
P District)
Participating Number of personnel from your organization that activated and participated
Personnel during the incident
BRInHOH CONTACT Name, Organization, address, contact phone number of person writing the
report
Executive Summary
A brief summary of events of the incident. Describe your activities, activation, any requests from your
organization, and participation in meetings or planning.
eee
After Action Report 2

eee eee
Successes and Areas of Improvement
Location of the Incident:
Strengths: Describe what worked that you participated in, during the incident
Area for Improvement |: /dentify any areas where this activity could be improved and your
corrective action that you suggest might correct the issue.
Strengths: Describe what worked that you participated in, during the incident
Area for Improvement II: /dentify any areas where this activity could be improved and your
corrective action that you suggest might correct the issue.
Strengths: Describe what worked that you participated in, during the incident
Area for Improvement Ill: identify any areas where this activity could be improved and your
corrective action that you suggest might correct the issue.
ee
After Action Report 3

Appendix A: Participants
Participants
}
7 4

ANNEX 1. CORRECTIVE ACTION PLAN
}
,
{5 Re _____

| [Gi ae,
