WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 21-11-04 DATE: November 18, 2021
A RESOLUTION OF WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
| APPROVING AND AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF AN
INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT WITH THE GREATER SALT LAKE
MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT, COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP,
EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, KEARNS METRO
TOWNSHIP, TOWN OF BRIGHTON, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP,
AND SALT LAKE COUNTY REGUARDING THE ISSUANCE OF BONDS
TO PAY FOR INFRASTRUCTURE

WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township ("White City") is a Municipality pursuant to Utah
Code §§ 10-2a-401 et seg; and

WHEREAS, White City is governed by a five-member elected Council under Utah Code Ann.§ 10-
3-205.5, which Council elects from its members a Mayor, and

WHEREAS, White City is authorized under the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. §
11-13-101 et seq. (the “Interlocal Cooperation Act”), to enter into an interlocal agreement with the
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (the "District"), Copperton Metro Township, Emigration
Canyon Metro Township, Kearns Metro Township, Town of Brighton, Magna Metro Township, and Salt
Lake County Respecting the Issuance of Bonds to Pay for Infrastructure, and

WHEREAS, White City, by and through its Council, has determined authorizing the District
to issue bonds for infrastructure, as set forth in the attached Interlocal Agreement, Attachment "A",
will benefit the residents of White City and will contribute to the prosperity, well-being, peace, and
comfort of the community.

NOW THEREFORE IT IS RESOLVED, the White City Metro Township Council approves,
and authorizes the Mayor to sign, the attached Interlocal Agreement ("Agreement") with the Greater Salt
Lake Municipal Services District, Copperton Metro Township, Emigration Canyon Metro Township,
Kearns Metro Township, Town of Brighton, Magna Metro Township, and Salt Lake County Respecting
the Issuance of Bonds to Pay for Infrastructure (ATTACHMENT A).

IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED, the Mayor and City Attorney may make non-material changes
to the Agreement prior to signing if needed to respond to comments and suggestions of other parties to

the Agreement, it being understood and agreed that each party to the Agreement is represented by legal
counsel that may have input to the document.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 18" day of November, 2021 by the White City Metro
Township Council in White City Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah.
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP:
PAULINA F. FLINT, MAYOR
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
ATTEST PAUL alte
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
: UW WAAR
SHERRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER
VOTING BY COUNCIL:
MAYOR FLINT Aye
COUNCIL MEMBER PRICE Aye
COUNCIL MEMBER PERRY Aye
COUNCIL MEMBER LITTLE Aye
COUNCIL MEMBER CARDENAZ Excused

County Contract No.
District Attorney No.
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
| GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT, COPPERTON METRO
TOWNSHIP, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP,
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP,
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP, TOWN OF BRIGHTON AND
SALT LAKE COUNTY

RESPECTING THE ISSUANCE OF BONDS TO PAY FOR INFRASTRUCTURE

THIS AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is made and entered into by and among the
GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT, a local district and political
subdivision of the state of Utah (“District”); COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP, a municipal
corporation (“Copperton”); EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, a municipal
corporation (“Emigration”); KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, a municipal corporation
(“Kearns”), MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, a municipal corporation (“Magna”); WHITE CITY
METRO TOWNSHIP, a municipal corporation (“White City”); the TOWN OF BRIGHTON, a
municipal corporation (“Brighton”); and SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic
and a political subdivision of the state of Utah (“County”), on behalf of unincorporated areas
located within the District. The Metro Townships and Brighton may be referred to herein as the
“Municipalities”. Each Metro Township, Brighton and the County may be referred to separately
or collectively as “District Members” or “Members”. The District and the Members are
sometimes referred to in this Agreement as the “Parties”, and each as a “Party”.

RECITALS
A. WHEREAS, as a duly formed and lawfully existing municipal services district under the
MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT ACT, Utah Code Ann. § 17B-2a-1101 ef seq. (the
“Act”), the District is authorized to exercise all rights, powers, duties, and responsibilities
l

of a municipal services district as provided by law. The District was created to provide
specified municipal services to unincorporated areas of the County and to those metro
townships, cities, and towns that might choose to be part of the District or to contract
with the District for the provision of services.

B. WHEREAS, the Municipalities and remaining unincorporated areas within Salt Lake
County are served by the District.

C. WHEREAS, the Municipalities are required, by Utah Code §17B-2a-1108, to remit their
sales tax revenues under the Local Sales and Use Tax Act and their transportation funds
received under Utah Code §72-2-108 to the District and the District Members are
authorized by Utah Code §17B-2a-1109 to share their sales tax and other revenues for
District purposes;

D. WHEREAS, the Parties have determined, in light of favorable bond interest rates and
escalating infrastructure construction costs, that it may be in their best interest for the
District to issue bonds and construct capital improvements sooner than those
improvements can be constructed on a pay-as-you-go basis.

E. WHEREAS, the District may be able to obtain federal grant funding for some of the
planned infrastructure construction projects, in which event the District will only be
required to pay the “local match” portion of the costs of those projects, which may result
in a lower level of borrowing, the completion of more infrastructure projects, and/or early
partial repayment of the bonds.

F. WHEREAS, pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101 ef
seq. (the “Interlocal Cooperation Act”), the District, and all District Members are
authorized to enter into this Agreement.

2

G. WHEREAS, the Parties have determined that it is mutually advantageous to enter into
this Agreement and for the District to issue bonds to pay for infrastructure that will
benefit the District Members and will contribute to the prosperity, well-being, peace, and
comfort of their residents and constituents.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises of the
Parties, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which
are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

AGREEMENT
1. Scope and Description of Borrowing.

(a) The District, in reliance upon this Agreement, will issue one or a series of bonds
(the “Construction Bonds”), through private placement, direct placement, one or
more public offerings, or a combination thereof, in a principal amount that will
not exceed $20,000,000 in the aggregate, not including any bonds issued to refund
existing bonds (the “Refunding Bonds” and, together with the Construction
Bonds, the “Bonds’’). Each series of Bonds issued pursuant to this Agreement will
have a term of no more than ten (10) years, with approximately level debt service
payments, and the end date of any Refunding Bonds shall not exceed the end date
of the underlying Bonds that are being refunded, plus up to six months to allow
the District flexibility in the refunding issue.

If the District decides it is advantageous to refund the Bonds, it shall only do
so if there is an overall costs savings to the District and its Members.

(b) The Bond shall be payable from each District Member’s proportionate share of
Class B and Class C Road Revenues (defined below) as calculated in Subsection

3

2(c). The District Members covenant and agree to promptly remit and pay over to
the District their Class B and Class C Road Revenues as the said revenues are
received (in order to meet the requirements of paragraph 2 (a) below or as otherwise
required by law). For purposes of this Agreement, “Class B and Class C Road
Revenues” means all funds allocated to the municipalities and/or the County
under Utah Code Ann. § 72-2-107

(c) The Bond proceeds will be used to construct any infrastructure within the
boundaries of the District for which Class B and Class C Road Revenues may be
used and pledged under Utah state law (“infrastructure”). The infrastructure
projects that initially will be funded fully or partially by Bond proceeds have been
determined and approved by the District Board of Trustees in accordance with
paragraph (1)(e) below. Additional projects using discretionary funds referenced
in paragraph (1)(e) may be determined and approved by the District Board of
Trustees in accordance with the following process. Engineering staff will identify
and provide information concerning infrastructure projects, including a
recommended ranking for each project in comparison with other proposed
projects based upon such factors as the need for and value of the project, but the
final ranking and priority of each project will be determined by the District Board
of Trustees.

(d) Once particular projects are undertaken using Bond proceeds, any changes to such
projects are subject to the Bond’s issuance documents. At least one hundred
twenty (120) days prior to the issuance of a Bond, the District shall notify each
District Member of its intent to issue the Bond, to the extent providing such notice

4

is feasible under the circumstances. If one hundred twenty (120) days prior notice
is not feasible, the District shall give the best notice practicable under the
circumstances to each District Member, with at least sixty (60) days prior notice.
(e) The table below identifies projects by jurisdiction that the District Board of
Trustees has determined should be funded by Bond proceeds, which are not listed
in any order of priority. The table also identifies discretionary funds not yet
assigned to a specific project, as well as funds to pay for bond issuance costs. In
the event an identified project is cancelled or adjusted, a bid comes in less, or a
grant or other outside funding becomes available for one of the identified projects,
then the amount of the savings, up to the full amount originally identified, will
remain with the corresponding jurisdiction to be used on another project within
that jurisdiction, unless that jurisdiction authorizes the District Board of Trustees
to reassign the proceeds to another project or add the proceeds to the discretionary
funds. At no time will proceeds from the discretionary funds be used to cover
additional costs on a given project above what is identified in the table below
unless 2/3 of the voting power of the District Board of Trustees votes to reassign
funds from the discretionary funds. All other additional costs on a given project
shall be the responsibility of the District from Class B and Class C Road Revenue
not subject to the Bonds or any other revenue source that can be legally used for
this purpose, or by a Withdrawing Member (as hereinafter defined) for which the
project was constructed according to paragraph (2)(g) of this Agreement. Unless
otherwise provided in this Agreement, all decisions with respect to discretionary
funds requires a simple majority vote of the Board of Trustees. Notwithstanding
5

the foregoing or anything in this Agreement to the contrary, discretionary funds
may be used to make non-discretionary payments required under a construction
| contract for the construction of an approved project on a simple majority vote of
the voting power of the Board of Trustees in order to prevent the District from
being in default under the said contract. Non-discretionary payments are those
payments required under the original design of a project, the absence of which
creates a default under a contract. Non-discretionary payments do not include
payments for services that deviate from the original design of a project. “Original
design” shall also include any change order or construction contract amendment
that does not increase the cost of the original design of a project. Bond issuance
costs will take precedence over discretionary funds. The District must adjust the
amount of discretionary funds available to accommodate the funds needed to
cover the final cost of bond issuance.
| j c TOL Po |
Description |
Sego Lily Drive Road Improvement $ 2,332,000
Cyprus Master Storm Drain Phase 2 $ 1,935,000
9040 West Storm Drain (combined with Cyprus
Magna Project) $ 288,000
[Kearns ss 4700 S Improvement Project $ 9,168,435
Canyon Stabilization Project $ 2,201,000
Unincorporated Lower Millcreek Canyon Road Overlay S 2,712,000
Stormwater, Road & Maintenance Projects $ 700,000
Brighton Infrastructure & Maintenance Projects S 200,000
Po Projects at Board of Trustees Discretion $ 88,565
Estimated maximum Issuance Costs *(Issuance
costs will not be finalized until closing. If less than
$375,000, any excess moves to discretion
category) S 375,000*
Total Issuance $ 20,000,000
6

2. Commitment of Each District Member.

(a) Each District Member covenants and agrees to remit and pay over to the District all
of its Class B and Class C Road Revenues as they are received to satisfy its
responsibility to pay its proportionate share of all principal and interest payments on
the Bonds as provided in this Agreement until the Bonds have been paid in full, both
while the District Member remains part of the District and after the District Member
has withdrawn from the District, should the said District Member choose to withdraw.
Once the District pays the annual Bond payment(s), when due, the District agrees to
return to any Withdrawing Member its Class B and Class C Road Revenues in excess
of the Withdrawing Member’s proportionate share.

(b) Except as provided by law or any other agreement with the District, each Member
shall be able to use and pledge Class B and Class C Road Revenues in excess of its
proportionate share. Each Member’s obligation to contribute toward payment on the
Bond will not be more than its proportionate share of Class B and Class C Road
Revenues, plus any penalty for late or non-payment as provided in this Agreement.

(c) For purposes of this Agreement, “proportionate share” shall be calculated as follows:
(i) Add up the total amount of the Class B and Class C road revenues of the
District Members (including Withdrawing Members) annually;

(ii) | Determine the percentage of each District Member’s (including Withdrawing
Members) contribution to the total amount in subsection 2(c)(i);
(iii) | Determine the amount required to repay Bond proceeds, costs of issuance,
capitalized interest, and debt service reserve requirements annually; and
7

(iv) Multiply a District Member’s (including Withdrawing Members) percentage
in subsection (2)(c)(ii) by the amount in subsection (2)(c)(iii).

(v) | Because each District Member’s level of Class B and C Road Revenues may
vary from year to year, each District Member’s proportionate share shall be
recalculated each year, including after the withdrawal of a District Member.

(d) Each District Member’s proportionate share of Class B and Class C Road Revenues
will be comingled and used by the District for appropriate purposes, including the
construction of infrastructure based upon the priority and timing for the same
established by the District Board of Trustees consistent with subsection 1(e).

(e) Should a District Member or Withdrawing Member fail, for any reason, to remit its
proportionate share of a payment required on a Bond that is issued pursuant to this
Agreement (the “Delinquent Member’), the District will provide to the Delinquent
Member a notice and an opportunity to cure. If within 30 days of the date of the
notice, the Delinquent Member has not made its proportionate share payment, the
non-Delinquent Members’ proportionate share will temporarily increase to make up
for the Delinquent Member’s proportionate share. The Delinquent Member shall then
be required to pay, in addition to its proportionate share of the Bond payment, either a
penalty at the rate of 12% per annum from the due date until the date paid or the
penalty paid on the underlying Bond default, whichever is greater.

(f) Each Party understands, acknowledges and agrees that its attorney may be required,
as part of a bond closing, to opine concerning the legality and enforceability of this
Agreement.

8

(g) Should a District Member withdraw from the District (herein a “Withdrawing
Member”), the said Withdrawing Member shall remain liable and responsible for its
proportionate share of the remaining unpaid balance (including interest) of the Bonds
that have been issued up to the effective date of the withdrawal (including Refunding
Bonds issued to refund Bonds issued prior to withdrawal), but not for any portion of
the Bond issued after that date (excepting Refunding Bonds meeting the criteria
outlined above in paragraph 1(a), issued prior to withdrawal), in accordance with the
following: (i) The Withdrawing Member shall be responsible for and pay its
proportionate share of the total redemption premium, principal and interest of the
Bonds. A Withdrawing Member is not responsible for any amount in excess of its
proportionate share of the amounts due under the Indenture relating to the Bonds,
including the actual annual redemption premium, if any, principal and interest of the
Bonds. Additionally, a Withdrawing Member is not responsible for any amount that
may have been covenanted as coverage ratios in the Indenture entered into by the
District for any Bonds that were issued after the Withdrawing Member withdrew
(excepting Refunding Bonds meeting the criteria outlined above in paragraph 1(a),
issued prior to withdrawal). The District shall continue to complete all infrastructure
projects (ongoing and future) that are financed with Bond proceeds, notwithstanding
the withdrawal; provided, however, in the event that the cost of an infrastructure
project in a Withdrawing Member’s jurisdiction exceeds the amount of Bond
proceeds, grants and other outside funding sources designated for such project, the
Withdrawing Member shall (i) pay its proportionate share of any Bonds issued to

9

finance the excess costs of said project after such Withdrawing Member withdraws or
(ii) provide its own funding sources to complete such project.

(h) The Withdrawing Member shall remit payment, via electronic funds transfer or
check, at least thirty (30) days before the date any amounts are due to the District
pursuant to this Agreement by the Withdrawing Member, as directed by the District.

(i) At least sixty (60) days before the due date, the District shall deliver a written
statement to the Withdrawing Member that itemizes the amount due from the
Withdrawing Member, including a breakdown that shows how the amount due was
calculated.

(j) If the date a payment by a Withdrawing Member is due and payable falls on (i) a
legal holiday recognized in Salt Lake County, Utah, (ii) a Saturday, (iii) a Sunday, or
(iv) another day on which weather or other conditions make the District office
inaccessible, then the payment shall be due and payable on the next day which is not
one of the aforementioned days. If any required payment is not remitted to the
District as and when due, the District shall be entitled to recover, in addition to the
proportionate share owed under the Indenture for the Bonds, interest thereon at the
rate of one percent (1%) per calendar month, to accrue from and after the date the
remittance is due and payable, or the penalty paid on the underlying Bond default,
whichever is greater.

(k) Alternatively, at the Withdrawing Member’s option, the Withdrawing Member may
defease its proportionate share of the Bonds by providing a refunding escrow (in the
same manner as the District may defease the Bonds under the Indenture for the
Bonds).

10

(1) A Withdrawing Member shall not pledge Class B and/or Class C road revenues that
have already been pledged under this Agreement on a priority basis, but only ona
subordinated basis.

3. Progress Reports. Notwithstanding Section 6 below, at least annually, the District will
provide a written progress report to the District Members, including Withdrawing
Members. The report will include such detail respecting the outstanding Bond and
infrastructure projects upon which Bond proceeds have been and are being expended as
reasonably requested by any District Member or Withdrawing Member. At a minimum,
each report will include the original principal amount of the Bond, the remaining unpaid
principal balance, the schedule of all Bond payments that have been made, each
infrastructure project that has been or is being financed, in whole or in part, using Bond
proceeds, a schedule of upcoming Bond payments, and an accounting of each District
Member’s, including Withdrawing Members’, annual proportionate share obligations.
The delivery of a written report meeting the requirements stated above in this Section that
is delivered to the District Member’s representative on the District Board of Trustees
shall constitute delivery of the report to the District Member (so long as any other notice
parties set forth in Section 6 below are also copied on such reports). Nothing in the
progress report shall excuse or reduce the revenues pledged by the Parties to repay
Bonds.

4. Effective Date. This Agreement shall be effective upon the last of the following events
to occur: (i) approval of the Agreement as provided in the Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-
202.5(1) and (2), (ii) delivery of the Agreement to an attorney representing each Party for

11

review as to proper form and compliance with applicable law, and (iii) the filing of the
signed Agreement with the keeper of records of each of the Parties.

a. Subject to paragraph 5 below, the term of this Agreement shall terminate one (1)
year after all of the Bonds issued pursuant to this Agreement have been paid in
full.

5. Term and Termination Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-206(a), the Parties agree that
this Agreement shall be terminated (i) no later than December 31, 2035, or (ii) prior to
December 31, 2035, upon an express written agreement entered into by all of the Parties
at least ninety (90) days prior to the agreed upon termination date, but only if, in either
case, all Bonds or other obligations of the District that are secured by the Class B and
Class C Road Revenues pledged hereunder shall be fully paid, discharged or performed
prior to the effective date of the termination of this Agreement. A District Member’s
withdrawal does not require termination of this Agreement or an agreement by all of the
Parties; only the written notice outlined in paragraph 6 is required.

6. Written Notices. For purposes of communicating and maintaining ongoing contract
management, written notices will be delivered, mailed or sent by email to each
designated Party identified below to the address or email on file with the District. Each
Party shall be responsible to maintain updated addresses and emails.

DISTRICT: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
District General Manager
2001 South State Street, N3-600
Salt Lake City, UT 84190
E-mail: bhartsell@msd.utah.gov
With a copy to Counsel for the District
Fabian VanCott
Mark H. Anderson
12

Rachel S. Anderson
215 South State Street, Suite 1200
Salt Lake City, UT 84111
E-mail: mhanderson@fabianvancott.com
E-mail: randerson(@fabianvancott.com
COUNTY: Salt Lake County Office of the Mayor
Attn: Deputy Mayor
2001 South State Street, N2-100
Salt Lake City, UT 84114
E-mail: ckanter@slco.org
With a copy to Salt Lake County District Attorney
Attn: Chief Deputy District Attorney
35 East 500 South
Salt Lake City, UT 84111
E-mail: rchamness@slco.org
Salt Lake County Council, Chairperson
2001 South State Street, N2-200
Salt Lake City, UT 84190
e-mail: sdebry(@slco.org
COPPERTON: Copperton Metro Township
Mayor: Sean Clayton
P.O. Box 125
Copperton, UT 84006
E-mail: seanclayton@coppertonutah.org
EMMIGRATION: | Emigration Canyon Metro Township
Mayor: Joe Smolka
5025 East Emigration Canyon Road
Salt Lake City, UT 84108
E-mail: smolka@ecmetro.org
KEARNS: Kearns Metro Township
Mayor: Kelly Bush
4956 West 6200 South, Suite 527
P.O. Box 527
Kearns, UT 84118
E-mail: Lobkb973@hotmail.com
MAGNA: Magna Metro Township
Mayor: Dean Peay
13

8952 West Magna Main Street
P.O. Box 136
Magna, UT 84044
E-mail: dan.peay@magnacity.org
WHITE CITY: White City Metro Township
Mayor: Paulina Flint
10467 S. Carnation Drive
White City, UT 84094
E-mail: paulina.flint@whitecity-ut.org
BRIGHTON: Town of Brighton
Mayor: Danial E. Knopp
7688 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd.
Brighton, UT 84121
E-mail: danknopp@brighton.utah.gov
A written notice shall be effective immediately upon personal or e-mail delivery as noted
above or on the third business day after deposit in the United States mail, first class
postage pre-paid, addressed as stated above. From time-to-time, any Party may change its
notice address by so notifying the other Parties as provided above.

7. Liability. The Parties are all governmental entities under the Governmental Immunity Act
of Utah, Utah Code Ann. § 63G-7-101, et seq. (the “Governmental Immunity Act”).
Consistent with the terms of the Governmental Immunity Act, it is mutually agreed that
each Party is responsible for its own wrongful or negligent acts which are committed by
its agents, officials, or employees. No Party waives any defense otherwise available
under the Governmental Immunity Act nor does any Party waive any limit of liability
currently provided by the Governmental Immunity Act. Each Party agrees to notify the
others of the receipt of any notice of claim under the Governmental Immunity Act for
which one Party may have an obligation to defend, indemnify, and/or hold harmless
another Party within thirty (30) days of receiving the notice of claim. Each Party also
agrees to notify every other Party of any summons and/or complaint served upon the said

14

Party, if a Party may have an obligation to defend, indemnify and/or hold harmless any
other Party, at least ten (10) days before an answer or other response to the summons
and/or complaint may be due.

8. Interlocal Cooperation Act. For the purpose of satisfying specific requirements of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Parties agree as follows:

a. The Parties do not, nor intend to, create an interlocal entity by entering into
this Agreement.

b. Each Party has submitted this Agreement to an attorney authorized to
represent the said Party for review as to proper form and compliance with
applicable law.

c. The duration of this Agreement is as set forth in Sections 4 and 5 above.

d. Each Party shall be responsible for formulating and approving its annual
budget and the District shall be responsible for budgeting for each
infrastructure project that will be funded through one or more bonds issued by
the District as provided in this Agreement.

e. Each Party will acquire, hold, and dispose of its own real and personal
property and there will be no jointly owned property upon the partial or
complete termination of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
however, upon completion of construction, the District will transfer ownership
of infrastructure to the District Member having jurisdiction over the location
where the infrastructure is located and, upon withdrawal from the District,
infrastructure owned by the District that is located within the boundary of the

15

Withdrawing Member will be transferred and conveyed to the Withdrawing
Member.

f. Inasmuch as each District Member is represented on the Board of Trustees of
the District, to the extent necessary to administer the cooperative undertaking
set forth in this Agreement, the Board of Trustees of the District shall have the
full authority and responsibility to administer the cooperative undertaking on
behalf of the Parties and, to the extent that voting is required, voting shall be
weighted as provided in Utah Code Ann. § 17B-2a-1106(3).

g. Since this Agreement cannot take effect under the Interlocal Cooperation Act
until it is approved, signed, and filed with the keeper of records of each of the
Parties, each Party agrees, promptly upon its mutual execution and delivery, to
file a copy of the signed Agreement with the keeper of records of the said
Party.

h. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that this
Agreement does not satisfy any requirement of the Interlocal Cooperation Act,
which failure would cause this Agreement to fail to be effective under the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, this Agreement shall nevertheless be fully binding
upon and enforceable by the Parties pursuant to law outside of the application
of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

9. Applicable Law. The provisions of this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Utah and courts located in Salt Lake County,
Utah shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute arising under this
Agreement.

16

10. Integration. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties
pertaining to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and
understandings pertaining thereto.

11. Waiver. No failure by any Party to insist upon the strict performance of any covenant,
duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy
consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of such
or any other covenant, agreement, term or condition. Any Party may, by notice delivered
in the manner provided in this Agreement, but shall be under no obligation to, waive any
of its rights or any conditions to its obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation or
covenant of any other Party. No waiver shall affect or alter the remainder of this
Agreement but each and every other covenant, agreement, term and condition hereof
shall continue in full force and effect with respect to any other then existing or
subsequently occurring breach.

12. Recitals. The recitals are an integral part of this Agreement and are included as part of
this Agreement.

13. Amendment. The Parties may amend this Agreement by a writing signed by the Parties as
provided in the Interlocal Cooperation Act. The amendment shall not be effective if it is
not in writing or if it is not signed by all of the Parties.

14. No Agency. Agents, employees or representatives of each Party shall not be deemed to be
agents, employees or representatives of any other Party.

15. Rights and Remedies. The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto shall not be mutually
exclusive, and the exercise of one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall not
preclude the exercise of any other right or remedy.

17

a. MEDIATION. Claims, disputes, and other issues between the Parties, or any of
them, arising out of or related to this Agreement which cannot otherwise be
resolved by the affected Parties shall first be submitted to mediation as mutually
agreed. Each affected Party shall be responsible to pay its equal share of the costs
of the Mediator. In the event mediation is unsuccessful, the claim or dispute may
be decided by litigation in the Third Judicial District Court of Salt Lake County,
Utah. During mediation and/or litigation of any such dispute, the Parties shall
continue to perform as provided in this Agreement.

16. Titles and Captions. All section and subsection titles and captions in this Agreement are
for convenience only. Such titles and captions shall not be deemed to be part of this
Agreement and shall in no way define, limit, augment, extend or describe the scope,
content or intent of any part or parts hereof

17. Pronouns and Plurals. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun used herein shall
include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular form of
nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plurals, and vice versa.

18. Time. Time is of the essence in this Agreement.

19. Survival. All agreements, covenants, representations and warranties contained herein
shall survive the execution of this Agreement and shall continue in full force and effect
throughout the term of this Agreement, irrespective of whether a District Member
becomes a Withdrawing Member during the said term and shall remain fully enforceable
until all of the Bonds issued pursuant to this Agreement, including subsequently issued
Refunding Bonds, have been paid in full.

18

20. Severability. In the event that any condition, covenant or other provision hereof is held to
be invalid or void, the same shall be deemed severable from the remainder of this
Agreement and shall in no way affect any other covenant or condition herein contained.
If such condition, covenant or other provision shall be deemed to be invalid due to its
scope or breadth, such provision shall be deemed valid to the extent of the scope or
breadth permitted by law.

21. Litigation Expenses. If any action, suit or proceeding is brought by any Party with respect
to a matter or matters covered by this Agreement, each Party shall bear its own costs and
expenses.

22. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of
which shall be deemed an original and all of which, together, shall constitute one and the
same instrument. A signature delivered electronically shall be deemed to be an original.

Each Party hereby signs this Interlocal Cooperation Agreement on the date written by each Party
on the signature pages attached hereto.
[The balance of this page was left blank intentionally — Signature pages follow]
19

INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT -- SIGNATURE PAGE FOR THE DISTRICT
GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL
SERVICES DISTRICT
—
Name:

Title:
Dated: , 2021
Approved as to Form and Legality:
ATTORNEY FOR THE DISTRICT
By
Name:

20

INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT -- SIGNATURE PAGES FOR DISTRICT MEMBERS
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
TOWNSHIP
By
Sean Clayton, Mayor By:
Joe Smolka, Mayor
Date:
Date:
APPROVED AS TO FORM
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Attorney representing Copperton Metro
Township Attorney representing Emigration Canyon Metro
Township
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
By By
Kelly Bush, Mayor Dan Peay, Mayor
Date: Date:
APPROVED AS TO FORM
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Attorney representing Kearns Metro
Township Attorney representing Magna Metro Township
TOWN OF BRIGHTON
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
; ° By:
By: - LZ Danial Knopp, Mayor
Paulina Flint, Mayor
Date:
Date: 1) -/ 9-702 |
APPROVED AS TO ee - APPROVED AS TO FORM
Attorney representing White City Metro Attomey representing the Town of Brighton
Township
21

SALT LAKE COUNTY
By:
Mayor Jennifer Wilson or Designee
Date:
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND
LEGALITY
By
Deputy District Attorney
4872-0297-6512, v. 2
22
