WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 22-05-02 DATE: May 5, 2022
A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY METRO COUNCIL
APPROVING A NON-EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE AGREEMENT WITH
QUESTAR GAS COMPANY D/B/A/ DOMINION ENERGY UTAH
FOR THE CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE OF
A NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM WITHIN THE WHITE
CITY METRO TOWNSHIP, STATE OF UTAH.
WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township ("White City") is a Municipality
pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.
WHEREAS, Questar Gas Company d/b/a Dominion Energy Utah, a Utah
corporation, (“Dominion Energy”), is a regulated public utility that provides
natural gas distribution service; and
WHEREAS, Dominion Energy desires to construct, maintain, and operate a natural
gas distribution system within the White City Metro Township (“White City” or
“Metro Township”); and
WHEREAS, providing a natural gas distribution system requires the installation,
operation, and maintenance of pipelines and other gas transmission appurtenances to
be located within or near the public rights-of-way; and
WHEREAS, White City, acting pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-21, has the
authority to regulate natural gas distribution system facilities within its public rights-
of-way and to grant to Dominion Energy a general utility easement for the use thereof;
and
WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township Council has determined that it is in the
best interest of the Metro Township’s citizens to grant a nonexclusive franchise to
Dominion Energy to use the roads and streets within the Metro Township for such
purpose; and
WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township desires to set forth the terms and
conditions by which Dominion Energy will use its public rights-of-way; and
WHEREAS, the White City Metro Township Council desires to enter into a Non-
Exclusive Franchise Agreement with Questar Gas d/b/a/ Dominion Energy Utah for
the Construction, Operation, and Maintenance of a Natural Gas Distribution System
with the White City Metro Township.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the White City Metro Township
Council as follows:
SECTION 1. The White City Metro Township Council hereby authorizes the Mayor
to sign the aforementioned Non-Exclusive Franchise Agreement with Questar Gas
d/b/a Dominion Energy Utah for the Construction, Operation, and Maintenance of a
Natural Gas Distribution System within the White City Metro Township.
SECTION 2. This Resolution shall take effect immediately.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the White Metro Township Council this 5" day of May,
2022.
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
BY: A +. F l x
PAULINA F. FLINT, MAYOR
ATTEST
APPROVED BY METRO ATTORNEY:

SHERRIE SWENSEN —
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER PAUL ASHTON, ATTORNEY

VOTE BY COUNCIL: AYE NAY

MAYOR PAULINA FLINT x

PHILLIP CARDENAZ x

SCOTT LITTLE x

ALLAN PERRY x

LINDA PRICE x

WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT

SECTION 1. Grant of Franchise and General Utility Easement. White City grants to
Dominion Energy a nonexclusive franchise (“Franchise”) to construct, maintain, and operate in
the present and future roads, streets, alleys, highways, and other public rights-of-way within Metro
Township limits, including any property annexed or otherwise acquired by White City after the
effective date of this Franchise, (collectively “Streets”) a distribution system for furnishing natural
gas to the Metro Township and its inhabitants for heating and other purposes. Dominion Energy
will have the right, privilege, and authority to erect, construct, equip, maintain, upgrade, and
relocate along, over, and under the Streets a system of mains, pipes, laterals, gas regulation
stations, valves, valve boxes, and cathodic protection facilities, and related equipment (collectively
“Gas Facilities”) as are reasonably necessary for supplying natural gas service in accordance with
this Franchise.

SECTION 2. Nonexclusive Franchise. Dominion Energy’s right to use and occupy the
Streets will be nonexclusive. White City reserves the right to use the Streets for itself or any other
entity that provides service to residences and business located within the Metro Township;
provided, however, that such use will not unreasonably interfere with Dominion Energy’s Gas
Facilities or Dominion Energy’s rights as granted within this Franchise.

SECTION 3. Term. This Franchise is granted for an initial term of thirty (30) years. At
the expiration of the initial term, the Franchise will continue in effect upon the same terms and
conditions for up to two additional terms (each of which is a renewal period) of fifteen (15) years
each. White City may terminate the Franchise at the end of the initial term, or at the end of any
renewal period, by giving Dominion Energy written notice of the Metro Township’s intent to so
terminate not less than ninety (90) calendar days before the expiration of the initial term or any
renewal period

SECTION 4. Consideration. In consideration of this Franchise, Dominion Energy will
pay to White City the sum of $50.00 upon acceptance of this Franchise and will provide natural
gas service in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Franchise.

SECTION 5. Acceptance by Dominion Energy.

5.1 Unconditional, Written Acceptance of Franchise. Within sixty (60) days
after the passage of this Ordinance, Dominion Energy will file with the Metro Township
Clerk/Recorder an unconditional written acceptance thereof, declaring its acceptance of the
Franchise and its intention to be bound by the Franchise’s terms and conditions. Dominion
Energy will use the “Acceptance of Franchise” form provided herein for accepting the
Franchise.

5.2 Failure to Accept within 60-Day Acceptance Period. If Dominion Energy
fails to accept the Franchise within the prescribed 60-day acceptance period, this Ordinance
and Franchise will be considered null and void.

SECTION 6. Metro Township Regulatory Authority. In addition to the provisions
contained in this Franchise, White City reserves the right to adopt such additional ordinances and

regulations as may be deemed necessary in the exercise of its police power for the protection of
the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens and their properties, or exercise any other rights,
powers, or duties required or authorized, under the Constitution of the State of Utah, the laws of
Utah, White City Municipal Ordinance, or other applicable law or regulation. Dominion Energy
reserves all lawful right to oppose or challenge any such ordinance or regulation as provided by
law.
SECTION 7. Plan, Design, Construction, and Installation of Gas Facilities.
7.1 Compliance with Metro Township Ordinances. Dominion Energy will
comply with all Metro Township ordinances, regulations, and requirements and
will pay all applicable excavation fees and charges that are or may be prescribed
by White City , with respect to the construction, maintenance, and operation of all
Gas Facilities.
7.1.1 Conflict. However, these obligations will apply only so long as
such ordinances, regulations, requirements, or fees are not preempted by
or otherwise in conflict with any applicable statutory or constitutional law,
rule, or regulation, or the tariffs approved by regulatory bodies having
Jurisdiction over Dominion Energy, including this Franchise and any
lawful revisions made and accepted by Dominion Energy during the term
of the Franchise.
7.2 Conformity with Gas Distribution Construction Practices. All Gas
Facilities will be constructed in accordance with established gas distribution
construction practices and in such fashion as to protect the Gas Facilities from all
traffic loads.
7.3 MVisual Appearance of Installed Gas Facilities. Without unreasonable
additional cost to Dominion Energy, all Gas Facilities that are installed during the
term of the Franchise will be sited to be visually unobtrusive and to preserve the
natural beauty and neighborhood aesthetics within Metro Township limits.
7.4 Right to Inspect. White City will have the right to inspect the construction,
maintenance, and operation of all Gas Facilities to ensure proper compliance with
applicable Metro Township ordinances, regulations, and requirements.
7.5 Failure to Comply. If Dominion Energy should fail to comply with the terms
of any Metro Township ordinance, regulation, or requirement, White City will
give Dominion Energy written notice of such non-compliance and the time for
correction provided by ordinance or a reasonable time for correction if there is no
time frame provided by the applicable ordinance, regulation, or requirement.
7.5.1 Self-Correction. Excluding any correction, modification, or change
to the Gas Facilities, and after written notice and failure of Dominion
Energy to make correction, White City may, at its sole risk, make such
correction itself and charge the cost to Dominion Energy including any
minimum cost provided by ordinance.
7.5.2 Changes or Corrections to Gas Facilities. White City will not

make, nor request or allow any party other than Dominion Energy, to make
changes or corrections of any kind to Dominion Energy’s Gas Facilities.
7.6 Construction Permit Requirement. Except in the case of an emergency,
Dominion Energy will, prior to commencing new construction or major
reconstruction work on Gas Facilities in the Streets, apply for any permit from
White City as may be required by Metro Township ordinances, which permit will
not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed.
7.6.1 Permit Exception: Emergency Repairs. Notwithstanding the
foregoing permit requirement, Dominion Energy will not be obligated to
obtain a permit to perform emergency repairs on its Gas Facilities. For the
purpose of this Franchise an emergency will mean a situation requiring
immediate attention and remedial action to prevent or abate injuries, loss
of life, property, or catastrophic interference with normal activities and
operations.
7.7 Minimum Interference. All Gas Facilities will be located, constructed, and
installed in such manner as to render the least amount of possible interference with
vehicular traffic and public use of the Streets and to cause minimal interference
with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of
the Streets.
7.8 Damage or Alteration to the Streets or Public Property. If Dominion
Energy damages or alters the Streets or public property in any manner while
performing any work on its Gas Facilities, Dominion Energy will (at its own cost
and expense and in a manner reasonably approved by the Metro Township)
replace and restore it in as good a condition as existed before the work
commenced.
7.8.1 Pre-Approval Requirement. Any repairs or restoration made to
the Streets and public property must be pre-approved in writing by the
Metro Township. Upon approval from White City , all such repairs must
be undertaken and completed in such manner as to minimize any undue
inconvenience to the Metro Township’s inhabitants or the public at large.
7.9 Newly Constructed Gas Distribution Lines. In addition to the installation
of underground gas distribution lines as provided by applicable state law and
regulations, Dominion Energy will, upon payment of all charges provided in its
tariffs or their equivalent, place newly constructed gas distribution lines
underground as may be required by Metro Township ordinance.
7.10 Right to Excavate. Dominion Energy will have the right to excavate the
Streets subject to reasonable conditions and requirements of the Metro Township.
Before installing new underground pipelines and appurtenances, or replacing
existing pipelines and appurtenances, Dominion Energy will first notify White
City of such work by written notice and will permit the Metro Township, at its
own expense (comprised of a pro rata share of the trenching costs), to share the
trench of Dominion Energy to lay its own pipeline therein, provided that such
action by the Metro Township will not unreasonably interfere with Dominion

Energy’s Gas Facilities or delay project completion.
7.10.1 Monument Preservation Permit Requirement. Pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. § 17-23-14 and Chapter 14.17 of the White City Metro
Township Code of Ordinances, if Dominion Energy finds it necessary to
disturb a survey monument for any non-emergency reason, Dominion
Energy will notify the County Surveyor and obtain a Monument
Preservation Permit at least five business days prior to the disturbing,
damaging, moving, removing, covering, resurfacing, roto-milling, or
destroying of any existing public survey monument(s).
7.10.2 Emergency Exception. Should any monument be disturbed
absent such a permit due to an emergency circumstance that poses a threat
to public health or safety, such as outage restoration or similar unplanned
activities, a Monument Preservation Permit must be obtained after the fact.
7.10.3 Construction of New or Replacement Survey Monuments.
New survey monuments, or replacement survey monuments, will be
constructed in accordance with the Monument Preservation Permit issued
by the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s office. Non-compliance with this
requirement is subject to penalties under Utah Code Ann. § 17-23-15 and
76-8-415.
7.10.4 Pipelines, Manholes, and Appurtenances. Pipelines, manholes,
and appurtenances will be designed, located, or adjusted during
construction to prevent interference or conflict with the permanent
location of existing Survey Monuments.
7.11 Written Notice Requirement. Before commencing any street
improvements or other work within the Streets that may affect Dominion Energy’s
Gas Facilities, White City will give written notice to Dominion Energy.
SECTION 8. Relocation of Gas Facilities.
8.1 Right to Require Relocation of Gas Facilities. Upon written notice, White
City may require Dominion Energy to remove, relocate, and reinstall (collectively
“Relocation”) its Gas Facilities located in, on, along, over, across, through, or
under any of the Streets. After receipt of such written notice, Dominion energy will
diligently being such Relocation of its Facilities as may be reasonably necessary to
meet White City ’ requirements.
8.2 Payment of Relocation Costs. The Relocation of Gas Facilities by Dominion
Energy will be at no cost to White City if: (i) the Gas Facilities have been installed
pursuant to this or any other Dominion Energy franchise and not pursuant to a
property or other similar right, including, but not limited to, a right-of-way, grant,
permit, or license from a state, federal, municipal, or private entity; and (ii) the
Metro Township provides a new location for the Gas Facilities pursuant to
paragraph 8.3 below.
8.2.1 Payment of Relocation Costs Exceptions.

8.2.1(a): Dominion Energy will not be responsible for any
costs associated with an authorized White City project that
is not attributable to Dominion Energy’s Gas Facilities in
the Streets. All such costs will be allocated among all
utilities or other persons whose facilities or property are
subject to Relocation due to an authorized Metro Township
project.
8.2.1(b): Dominion Energy will not be obligated to pay the
cost of any Relocation that is required or made a condition
of a private development. If the Relocation of Gas
Facilities is caused directly or otherwise by an identifiable
development of property in the area, or is made for the
convenience of a customer, Dominion Energy may charge
the expense of Relocation to the developer or customer.
For example, Dominion Energy will not be required to pay
Relocation costs in connection with a road widening or
realignment where the road project is made a condition of
or caused by a private development.
8.3 Commencement of Relocation Work. Within a reasonable time after
receiving written notice from White City , Dominion Energy will promptly
commence the requested Relocation of its Gas Facilities. Before relocating the
Gas Facilities, White City will, with the assistance and consent of Dominion
Energy, identify a reasonable alignment for the relocated Gas Facilities within the
Streets.
8.4 No Additional Payment. Following the Relocation of any Gas Facilities,
Dominion Energy may maintain and operate such Gas Facilities in the new
location within Metro Township limits without additional payment.
8.5 Reimbursement of Relocation Costs. If a Metro Township Relocation
project is funded by federal or state monies that include an amount allocated to
defray the cost of relocating Gas Facilities, then White City will compensate
Dominion Energy up to the extent of such amount for any Relocation costs
mandated by the project to the extent that the Metro Township actually receives
or is otherwise authorized to direct or approve payment of such federal or state
funds; however, White City will ensure that receipt of compensation from federal
or state sources will not restrict or otherwise obligate Dominion Energy’s
ownership of the Gas Facilities in any way.

SECTION 9. Subdivision Plat Notification. Before White City approves any new
subdivision and before recordation of a plat that impacts or could impact the Gas Facilities, the
Metro Township will obtain Dominion Energy’s approval of Gas Facilities, including underground
facilities to be installed by the developer, and associated rights-of-way depicted on the plat. A
copy of the plat will be mailed for approval to Dominion Energy:

Dominion Energy

Attn: Planning

333 South State Street
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
SECTION 10. Annexation.
10.1 Extension of Metro Township Limits. Upon the annexation of any
territory to the Metro Township, the rights granted under this Franchise will
extend to the annexed territory to the extent the Metro Township has such
authority. All Gas Facilities owned, maintained, or operated by Dominion Energy
pursuant to a franchise agreement and located within any public rights-of-way of
the annexed territory will thereafter be subject to all the terms and conditions of
this Franchise.
10.2 Notice of Annexation. When any territory is approved for annexation to
the Metro Township, White City will, not later than ten (10) working days after
passage of an ordinance approving the proposed annexation, provide by certified
mail to Dominion Energy: (a) each site address to be annexed as recorded on
county assessment and tax rolls; (b) a legal description of the proposed boundary
change; and (c) a copy of the Metro Township’s ordinance approving the proposed
annexation. The notice will be mailed to:
Dominion Energy
Attn: Annexations
333 South State Street
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
With copies to:
Dominion Energy
Attn: Office of the General Counsel
333 South State Street
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
White City Metro Township by and through its agent
the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Attn: Planning and Development Services
2001 South State Street #N3-600
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
SECTION 11. Assignment. Dominion Energy may assign or transfer its rights and
obligations under the Franchise, without the Metro Township’s consent, to any parent, affiliate, or
subsidiary of Dominion Energy, to any entity having fifty percent (50%) or more direct or indirect
common ownership with Dominion Energy, or to any successor-in-interest or transferee of
Dominion Energy having all necessary approvals, including those from the Utah Public Service
Commission or its successor, to provide utility service within White City ’s municipal limits.
Additionally, Dominion Energy may assign, mortgage. pledge, hypothecate, or otherwise transfer
its interest in this Franchise, without the Metro Township’s consent, to any financing entity, or
agent on behalf of any financing entity to whom Dominion Energy: (1) has obligations for
borrowed money or in respect of guaranties thereof; (ii) has obligations evidenced by bonds,
debentures, notes, or similar instruments; or (iii) has obligations under or with respect to letters of

credit, bankers acceptances and similar facilities or in respect of guaranties thereof. Under all
other circumstances, excluding the operation of law, Dominion Energy will not transfer, assign, or
delegate any of its rights or obligations under the Franchise to another entity without the Metro
Township’s prior written approval, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld,
conditioned, or delayed. Inclusion of the Franchise as an asset of Dominion Energy subject to the
liens and mortgages of Dominion Energy will not constitute a transfer or assignment requiring the
Metro Township’s prior written consent.

SECTION 12. Information Exchange. Upon request by either White City or Dominion
Energy, as reasonably necessary, Dominion Energy and the Metro Township will meet for the
purpose of exchanging information and documents regarding construction and other similar work
within Metro Township limits, with a view towards coordinating their respective activities in those
areas where such coordination may prove mutually beneficial. Any information received by White
City from Dominion Energy that contains or relates to Dominion Energy’s confidential or
proprietary information, including but not limited to information regarding future capital
improvements that may involve land acquisition, will be treated with confidentiality upon request
to the extent that the Metro Township may lawfully do so.

SECTION 13. Terms of Service. Dominion Energy will furnish natural gas service
without preference or discrimination among customers of the same service class at reasonable rates
in accordance with all applicable tariffs approved by and on file with regulatory bodies having
jurisdiction over Dominion Energy, including revisions to such tariffs made during the term of the
Franchise, and in conformity with all applicable constitutional and statutory requirements.
Dominion Energy may make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations in the conduct of its
business, may require its customers to execute a gas service agreement as a condition to receiving
service, and will have the right to contract with its customers regarding the installation and
operation of its Gas Facilities. To secure safe and reliable service to the customers, and in the
public interest, Dominion Energy will have the right to prescribe the sizes and kinds of pipes and
related Gas Facilities to be used and will have the right to refuse service to any customer who
refuses to comply with Dominion Energy’s rules and regulations.

SECTION 14. Taxes and Fees. During the 2021 legislative session, the Utah
Legislature modified Utah Code Ann. § 10-3c-204 to allow the Metro Township to impose a
“municipal energy sales and use tax” pursuant to Utah’s Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax
Act, Utah Code Ann. § 10-1-301, et. seq. If White City imposes a municipal energy sales and use
tax, Dominion Energy will pay to the Metro Township a tax in accordance with the Municipal
Energy Sales and Use Tax Act, Utah Code Ann. § 10-1-301, et. seq. Notwithstanding any
provision to the contrary, Dominion Energy will pay any other required charges, taxes, and fees
lawfully established in a code or ordinance properly adopted by the Metro Township, including
but not limited to franchise taxes and fees.

SECTION 15. Indemnification. White City will in no way be liable or responsible for
any loss or damage to property or any injury to, or death, of any person that may occur in the
construction, operation, or maintenance by Dominion Energy of its Gas Facilities. Dominion
Energy will indemnify, defend, and hold White City , its agents, officers and employees, harmless
from and against any and all claims, demands, liens, liabilities, damages, actions, and proceedings
arising from the exercise by Dominion Energy of its rights under this Franchise, including its
operations within Metro Township limits, and Dominion Energy will pay the reasonable cost of
defense plus the Metro Township’s reasonable attorney fees. White City will: (a) give prompt
written notice to Dominion Energy of any claim, demand, or lien with respect to which the Metro

Township seeks indemnification under this Franchise; and (b) permit Dominion Energy to assume
the defense of such claim, demand, or lien. If such defense is not assumed by Dominion Energy,
Dominion Energy will not be subject to liability for any settlement made without its consent.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, Dominion Energy will not be obligated to
indemnify, defend, or hold White City harmless to the extent that any underlying claim, demand,
lien, liability, damage, action, and proceeding arises out of, or in connection with, any negligent
or willful act or omission of the Metro Township or any of its agents, officers, or employees.

SECTION 16. Insurance. Dominion Energy will responsibly self-insure or maintain
insurance to cover its obligations and liabilities as set forth in Section 15 of this Franchise, in lieu
of any insurance as may be required in any Metro Township ordinances.

SECTION 17. Waiver of Surety Bond Requirement. If any Metro Township ordinance
requires Dominion Energy to post a surety bond, that section of the ordinance is expressly waived.

SECTION 18. Notices. Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from Dominion
Energy to White City pursuant to or concerning this Franchise will be delivered to the following
addresses, which the Parties may update from time to time in writing:

White City Metro Township by and through its agent
the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Attn: Planning and Development Services

2001 South State Street #N3-600

Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from White City to Dominion Energy
pursuant to or concerning this Franchise will be delivered to:

Dominion Energy

Attn: Regional Business Management Director

333 South State Street

Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

If White City or Dominion Energy desires to use a different mailing address under this
Section 15 of the Franchise, the party requesting such change must provide written notice to the
other party.

SECTION 19. Amendment. At any time during the term of this Franchise, White City
or Dominion Energy may propose amendments to this Franchise by giving thirty (30) days written
notice to the other party of the proposed amendment(s) desired, and both parties thereafter, through
their designated representatives, will, within a reasonable time, negotiate in good faith in an effort
to agree upon mutually satisfactory amendment(s). No amendment or amendments to this
Franchise will be effective until mutually agreed upon by White City and Dominion Energy and
formally adopted as an ordinance amendment, which will be accepted in writing by Dominion
Energy.

SECTION 20. Automatic Termination. Upon expiration of the second renewal period
under Section 3 above, the Franchise will automatically terminate.

SECTION 21. No Waiver. Neither White City nor Dominion Energy will be excused

from complying with any of the terms and conditions of this Franchise by any failure of the other,
or any of its officers, employees, or agents.

SECTION 22. Severability and Effect of Invalidity. If any section, sentence, paragraph,
term, or provision of this Franchise is for any reason determined to be illegal, invalid, or
superseded by other lawful authority including any state or federal regulatory authority having
jurisdiction thereof, or unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid by any court of common jurisdiction,
such portion will be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision and such determination
will have no effect on the validity of any other section, sentence, paragraph, term, or provision of
this Franchise, all of which will remain in full force and effect for the term of the Franchise or any
renewal or renewals thereof.

WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL

By: £7, eis Lesson a Pe

Paulina F. Flint, Mayor
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder Paul H. Adon Li City Metro
Township Attorney
ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE

This is to certify that Questar Gas Company d/b/a Dominion Energy Utah (“Franchisee”)
accepts the nonexclusive franchise (“Franchise”) to construct, maintain, and operate a gas
distribution system in, under, above, and across the present and future public rights-of-way in
the White City Metro Township, State of Utah, as evidenced by Resolution No.
and adopted by the White City Metro Township Council on , 2022. Franchisee
accepts the Franchise as approved and agrees that it will be bound by and observe and carry out
the terms and conditions of the Franchise.

Franchisee designates the following representative to receive and respond to issues in
connection with the Franchise, and such other office as Franchisee may designate by written
notice to the White City Metro Township:

Dominion Energy Utah

Attn: Franchise Manager

333 South State Street

Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

With copy (except for invoices) to:

Dominion Energy Utah Legal Department

Attn: Network Legal Team

333 South State Street

Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

Dated this day of . 2022.
QUESTAR GAS COMPANY d/b/a
DOMINION ENERGY UTAH
By its
