WHTIE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP

RESOLUTION NO.: 2023-04-01 DATE: April 4, 2023
A RESOLUTION OF WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL A
RESOLUTION APPROVING THE TRADITIONAL ELECTION METHOD
FOR THE 2023 WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP ELECTION AND
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO ENTER INTO AN INTERLOCAL
COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN SALT LAKE COUNTY
ELECTION DIVISION AND WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP FOR
ELECTION SERVICES

WHEREAS, during 2023, Municipal Elections will be conducted within White City Metro
Township for three at-large municipal council seats; and

WHEREAS, the Council has made the decision to have the municipal election conducted by the
Traditional election method by election officials of Salt Lake County (“the County”); and

WHEREAS, the County has the expertise and election equipment to provide such services at a
cost equal to or less than the City may be able to conduct the election; and

WHEREAS, the County has proposed an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to provide said
election services at an estimated cost of $7,722;

WHEREAS, the parties desire to continue by contract said services under the terms and
conditions set forth in the attached Interlocal Cooperation Agreement;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved by the White City Metro Township Council that the Mayor is
authorized to execute the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with Salt Lake County Election Division
providing for the conducting of the 2023 Municipal Election within the City attached hereto.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the White City Metro Township Council, in White City,
Salt Lake County, Utah this 6 day of April 2023.

he CITY METRO TOWNSHIP:
PAULINA B. FLINT, MAYOR
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Wehwle Watt, Deputy Clerk a
LANNIE CHAPMAN PAUL H. ASHTON
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER

VOTING BY COUNCIL:
MAYOR FLINT ANe
COUNCIL MEMBER PRICE Ate
COUNCIL MEMBER PERRY Mie
COUNCIL MEMBER SHELTON he
COUNCIL MEMBER CARDENAZ, MN
-2-

County Contract No._CK23123
D.A. No. 23CIV000146
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
between
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
and
SALT LAKE COUNTY on behalf of the
COUNTY CLERK’S ELECTION’S DIVISION
FOR MUNICIPAL ELECTION

THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into the 6th day of __ April :
2023, by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY (the “County’), a body corporate and politic
of the State of Utah, on behalf of the Salt Lake County Clerk's Office, Elections Division;
and the WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP ("White City”) a municipal corporation created
under the laws of the State of Utah.

RECITALS:

WHEREAS, the County desires to provide the services of its clerk’s office,

elections division, to White City for the purpose of assisting White City in conducting White
City’s 2023 primary and general municipal elections; and

WHEREAS, White City desires to engage the County for such services; and

WHEREAS, the parties are public agencies and are therefore authorized by the
Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CoDE §§ 11-13-101 to -608 (2022), to enter into
agreements to cooperate with each other in a manner which will enable them to make the
most efficient use of their resources and powers.

AGREEMENT:

NOW THEREFORE, in exchange for valuable consideration, including the mutual

covenants contained in this Agreement, the parties covenant and agree as follows:
I

1. Term. The County shall provide election services described below to White
City commencing on the date this Agreement is approved by both parties and terminating
on December 31, 2023. Either party may cancel this Agreement upon thirty (30) days
written notice to the other party. Upon such cancellation, each party shall retain ownership
of any property it owned prior to the date of this Agreement, and White City shall own any
property it created or acquired pursuant to this Agreement.
2. Scope of Work. The services to be provided by the County shall be as set
forth in the Scope of Work, attached hereto and incorporated by reference as Exhibit “A.”
Generally, the County shall perform the listed election functions as set forth in Exhibit “A”
and as needed to ensure implementation of White City’s 2023 primary and general
municipal elections.
3. Legal Requirements.
a. The County and White City understand and agree that White City’s
2023 primary and general municipal elections are White City’s elections. White
City shall be responsible for compliance with all legal requirements for these
elections. White City agrees to translate ballot issues, if any, into Spanish. The
County will provide the remaining Spanish translations for the ballot and other
election materials as required by law. The County agrees to work with White City
in complying with all legal requirements for the conduct of these elections and
conduct these elections pursuant to the direction of White City, except as provided
in this Agreement and Exhibit “A.” The County agrees to disclose and maintain
election results through its website merely as a courtesy and convenience to White
City. White City, and not the County, is responsible to resolve any and all election
2

questions, problems, and legal issues that are within White City's statutory
authority.

b. The County and White City understand and agree that if the County
provides services or resources to conduct an instant runoff voting election as
described in sections 20A-4-603 and -604, UTAH CoDE (2022) (“Rank Choice
Voting”), the estimated cost of administering such an election will be provided to
White City at a later time.

c. If White City decides to hold a Rank Choice Voting election, then, in
accordance with Utah Code § 20A-4-602(3)(a), it shall provide the Lt. Governor
and the County notice of its intent to use Rank Choice Voting as its selected
method of voting, no later than May 1, 2023.

d. The County has the full ability to conduct Rank Choice Voting for
races involving no more than 10 candidates. White City therefore acknowledges
that if the County conducts a Rank Choice Voting race involving more than 10
candidates, then the County will be able to count only the first ten valid preference
rankings cast by each voter in that race. White City hereby assumes full risk and
liability for, and agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the County, its agents,
officers and employees from and against, any and all actions, claims, lawsuits,
contests, controversies, challenges, proceedings, liability, damages, losses and
expenses (including attorney’s fees and costs) arising out of or resulting from
White City’s decision to use of Rank Choice Voting in a race involving more than
10 candidates. Moreover, the County reserves the right to refuse to conduct a

White City election, or any contest, that includes a Rank Choice Voting race
involving more than 10 candidates. The County’s exercise of such a right shall be
3

effective immediately upon written notice to White City and shall not be construed

as a breach of, or an event of default under, this Agreement, and said exercise

shall be without any liability of, or penalty to, the County.

4. Cost. In consideration of the services performed under this Agreement,
White City shall pay the County. The estimated cost of such services shall be provided
in Exhibit “B,” and will be attached hereto and incorporated by reference. The County
shall provide a written invoice to White City at the conclusion of the elections, and White
City shall pay the County within thirty days of receiving the invoice. The invoice shall
contain a summary of the costs of the election and shall provide the formula for allocating
the costs among the issues and jurisdictions participating in the elections. In the case of
a vote recount, election system audit, election contest, or similar event arising out of
White City’s election, White City shall pay the County's actual costs of responding to
such events, based on a written invoice provided by the County. The invoice amount for
these additional services may cause the total cost to White City to exceed the estimate
given to White City by the County. For such consideration, the County shall fumish all
materials, labor and equipment to complete the requirements and conditions of this
Agreement.

5. Governmental Immunity. White City and the County are governmental
entities and subject to the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, UTAH CODE §§ 63G-7-
101 to ~904 (2022) (the “Governmental Immunity Act’). Nothing in this Agreement shall
be deemed a waiver of any rights, statutory limitations on liability, or defenses applicable
to White City or the County under the Governmental Immunity Act or common law. Each
party shall retain liability and responsibility for the acts and omissions of their
representative officers. In no event shall this Agreement be construed to establish a

4

partnership, joint venture or other similar relationship between the parties and nothing
contained herein shall authorize either party to act as an agent for the other. Each of the
parties hereto assumes full responsibility for the negligent operations, acts and
omissions of its own employees, agents and contractors. It is not the intent of the parties
to incur by Agreement any liability for the negligent operations, acts, or omissions of the
other party or its agents, employees, or contractors.

6. No Obligations to Third Parties. The parties agree that the County's
| obligations under this Agreement are solely to White City. This Agreement shall not
} confer any rights to third parties.

7. indemnification. Subject to the provisions of the Act, White City agrees to ,

indemnify and hold harmless the County, its agents, officers and employees from and

| against any and all actions, claims, lawsuits, proceedings, liability, damages, losses and
expenses (including attorney's fees and costs), arising out of or resulting from the
performance of this Agreement to the extent the same are caused by any negligent or
wrongful act, error or omission of White City, its officers, agents and employees and
including but not limited to claims that the County violated any state or federal law in the
provision of election services under this Agreement.

8. Election Records. White City shall maintain and keep control of all of its

records created pursuant to this Agreement and from the elections relevant to this
Agreement. White City shall respond to all public record requests related to this
Agreement and the underlying elections and shall retain its election records consistent
with the Government Records Access and Management Act, UTAH CODE §§ 63G-2-101
to -901 (2022), and all other relevant local, state and federal laws.

5

9. Service Cancellation. If the Agreement is canceled or terminated as
provided above, White City shall pay the County on the basis of the actual services
performed according to the terms of this Agreement. Upon cancellation or termination of
this Agreement by either party, the County shall submit to White City an itemized
statement for services rendered under this Agreement up to the time of said cancellation
or termination and based upon the dollar amounts for materials, equipment and services
set forth herein.

10. Legal Compliance. The County, as part of the consideration herein, shall
comply with all applicable federal, state and county laws governing elections. White City
agrees that the direction it gives the County under Utah Code § 20A-5-400.1(2)(a) and
this Agreement shall likewise be in strict compliance with all such applicable laws. The
County shall be under no obligation to comply with any direction from White City that is
not demonstrably consistent with all applicable federal, state and county laws governing
elections.

11. Agency. No agent, employee or servant of White City or the County is or
shall be deemed to be an employee, agent or servant of the other party. None of the
benefits provided by either party to its employees including, but not limited to, workers’
compensation insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance, are available
to the employees, agents, or servants of the other party. White City and the County shall
each be solely and entirely responsible for its own acts and for the acts of its own agents,
employees and servants during the performance of this Agreement.

12. Force Majeure. Neither party shall be liable for any excess costs if the failure
to perform arises from causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of
that party, e.g., acts of God, fires, floods, strikes or unusually severe weather. If such

6

condition continues for a period in excess of 60 days, White City or the County shall have
the right to terminate this Agreement without liability or penalty effective upon written notice
to the other party.
13. | Notices. Any notice or other communication required or permitted to be given
under this Agreement shall be deemed sufficient if given by a written communication and
shall be deemed to have been received upon personal delivery, actual receipt, or within
three (3) days after such notice is deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, and
certified and addressed to the parties as set forth below:
Salt Lake County Salt Lake County Mayor
2001 South State Street, N2-100
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
and
Ann Stoddard
Admin/Fiscal Manager
Salt Lake County Clerk's Office
2001 South State, Suite S1-200
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190-1050
email: astoddard@slco.org
White City White City Metro Township
Rori L. Andreason, Administrator
999 East Galena Drive
White City, UT 84094
email: _rori.andreason@whitecity-ut.org
14, Required Insurance Policies. Both parties to this Agreement shall
maintain insurance or self-insurance coverage sufficient to meet their obligations
hereunder and consistent with applicable law.
15. Independent Contractor. Because the County is consolidating election
functions in order to conduct multiple, simultaneous elections on August 15, 2023, and
7

on November 7, 2023, certain decisions by the County referenced in Exhibit “A” may not
be subject to review by White City. It is therefore understood by the parties that the County
will act as an independent contractor with regard to its decisions regarding resources,
procedures and policies based upon providing a consistent type, scope and level of
service to all participating jurisdictions made for the benefit of the whole as set forth in
Exhibit “A.”

16. No Officer or Employee Interest. It is understood and agreed that no
officer or employee of the County has or shall have any pecuniary interest, direct or
indirect, in this Agreement or the proceeds resulting from the performance of this
Agreement. No officer or employee of White City or any member of their families shall
serve on any County board or committee or hold any such position which either by rule,
practice or action nominates, recommends or supervises White City’s operations or
authorizes funding or payments to White City.

17. Ethical Standards. White City represents that it has not: (a) provided an
illegal gift to any County officer or employee, or former County officer or employee, or to
any relative or business entity of a County officer or employee, or relative or business
entity of a former County officer or employee; (b) retained any person to solicit or secure
this contract upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage,
brokerage or contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial
agencies established for the purpose of securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical
standards set forth in State statute or section 2.07, Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances;
or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promises that it will not knowingly influence, any
County officer or employee or former County officer or employee to breach any of the
ethical standards set forth in State statute or Salt Lake County ordinance.

8

18. Interlocal Agreement. In satisfaction of the requirements of the Utah
Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE §§ 11-13-101 to -608 (2022), (the “Interlocal Act’),
in connection with this Agreement, White City and the County agree as follows:

a. This Agreement shall be approved by each party, pursuant to section
11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act;

b. This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance
with applicable law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each party, pursuant
to Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act;

Cc. Any duly executed original counterpart of the Agreement shall be
filed with the keeper of records of each party, pursuant to section 11-13-209 of the
Interlocal Act;

d. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each party shall be
responsible for its own costs of any action performed pursuant to this Agreement,
and for any financing of such costs; and

e. No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement.
No real or personal property shall be acquired jointly by the parties as a result of
this Agreement. To the extent that a party acquires, holds or disposes of any real
or personal property for use in the joint or cooperative undertaking contemplated
by this Agreement, such party shall do so in the same manner that it deals with
other property of such party.

f. County and White City Representatives.

i. The County designates the County Clerk as the County's
representative to assist in the administrative management of this
9

Agreement and to coordinate performance of the services under this
Agreement.

ii. White City designates White City’s
Administrator [title] as White City’s representative in its
performance of this Agreement. White City's Representative shall have the
responsibility of working with the County to coordinate the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement.

19. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts by White
City and the County.

20. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State
of Utah both as to interpretation and performance. All actions including but not limited to
court proceedings, administrative proceedings, arbitration and mediation proceedings,
shall be commenced, maintained, adjudicated and resolved within Salt Lake County.

21. Integration. This Agreement embodies the entire agreement between the
parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and shall not be altered except in
writing signed by both parties.

[SIGNATURE PAGE TO FOLLOW)
10

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the day

and year first above written.
SALT LAKE COUNTY:
Mayor or Designee
Date:

Recommended for Approval:

( fa Chapman
Salt Lake County Clerk
igwed as to OFA dam Miller
2023.02.06 10:39:01
-07'00'

Deputy District Attorney

Date:
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP:

A , | ag

By: '
Name: _ Paulina B. Flint
Title:__ Mayor
Date: _ April 6, 2023

Approved as to Form:

By: _ Paul Ashton, Attorney

Date: _ April 6, 2023

11

Exhibit “A”
2023 Municipal Elections
Scope of Work
White City agrees to the consolidation of all election administrative functions to ensure the successful
| conduct of multiple, simultaneous municipal, local district elections and county elections and the County
agrees to conduct vote by mail/consolidated polls elections for White City.
In a consolidated election, decisions made by the County regarding resources, procedures and policies
are based upon providing the same scope and level of service to all the participating jurisdictions and
White City recognizes that such decisions, made for the benefit of the whole, may not be subject to
review by White City.
Services the County will perform for White City include, but are not limited to:
e Ballot layout and design
e Ballot ordering and printing
© Machine programming and testing
© Delivery of supplies and equipment
e Provision of all supplies
e Election vote centers/early vote locations
® Vote by Mail administration
® Updating state and county websites
¢ Tabulating, reporting, auditing and preparing canvassing election results
e Conducting recounts as needed
® All notices and mailings required by law (except those required by Utah Code Ann. Ch. 11-14,
Part 2 and § 20A-9-203)
e Direct payment of all costs associated with the elections to include vote center workers,
training, vote centers, rovers.
White City will provide all voter education outreach related to Rank Choice Voting, if applicable.
White City will provide the County Clerk with information, decisions, and resolutions and will take
appropriate actions required for the conduct of the elections in a timely manner.
The County will provide a good faith estimate for budgeting purposes (Exhibit “B”). Election costs are
variable and are based upon the offices scheduled for election, the number of voters, the number of
jurisdictions participating as well as any direct costs incurred.
White City will be invoiced for its pro-rata share of the actual costs of the elections which are estimated
in Exhibit B. In the event of a state or county special election being held in conjunction with a municipal
election, the scope of services and associated costs, and the method of calculating those costs, will
remain unchanged.

Exhibit “B”
2023 Election Costs
White City Metro Township
Below is the good faith estimate for the upcoming 2023 Municipal Election for White City Metro
Township. Assumptions for providing this estimate consist of the following:
A. Active voters (as of 1/27/2023): 2,975
B. Election for the offices below:

2023 Offices wn: .

Council At-Large 1 All billing will be based on actual costs.

Council At-Large 2

Council At-Large 3
lf your municipality pursues traditional voting, not ranked choice voting (RCV), and has a Primary
Election and a General Election, the estimated cost would be $7,722.
If your municipality chooses RCV for the General Election and cancels the Primary Election, the
estimated cost would be $5,019 for the General Election plus RCV costs (see below).
if your municipality chooses RCV for the Primary Election and holds a traditional voting General Election,
the estimated cost would be $7,722 plus the RCV costs (see below).
RCV Costs will be applied on a sliding scale, see below. If your municipality chooses to hold a RCV
election for either the Primary or the General, the added costs will be dependent upon how many other
municipalities opt into RCV.
As an example, if White City Metro Township is the only municipality to hold a RCV election, the costs
would be as quoted above plus $36,156. You can see if two municipalities choose RCV, your added
costs would be $18,078. (See the chart below for the additional cost depending on how many
municipalities participate.)

Number of Number of
participating | Allocated participating | Allocated
municipalities costs municipalities costs
5 $7,231
18 $2,009
10 $ 3,616
