WHITE CITY, UTAH
Ordinance No. 2024-O-04
AN ORDINANCE OF THE WHITE CITY COUNCIL ESTABLISHING A MUNICIPAL
ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX AND A TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE TAX

WHEREAS, the White City Council (“Council”) met in a regular session on May 13,
2024, to consider, among other things, establishing a municipal energy sales and use tax (“MET”)
and a telecommunications license tax (“TLT”), and establishing the effective dates and rates for
such taxes; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act, Utah Code § 10-
1-301 et seq., White City (“White City”) may levy a MET through ordinance; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Municipal Telecommunications License Act, Utah Code §
10-1-401 et seg., White City may levy a TLT through ordinance; and

WHEREAS, the Council has determined to enact a MET and a TLT through this
ordinance.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE WHITE CITY COUNCIL as follows:
1. Enactment of MET. The following is enacted as Chapter 3.80 of the White City Municipal Code:

3.860.010 Purpose

It is the intent of White City to adopt a municipal energy sales and use tax pursuant to,

and in conformance with, Utah Code § 10-1-301 et seq., the “Municipal Energy Sales and

Use Tax Act.”

3.80.020 Definitions

All words and phrases in this chapter shall have the same meaning given them in the MET

Act, with the following additions:

A. “Consumer” means a person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject

to the MET Act.
B. “MET” means municipal energy sales and use tax.
C. “MET Act” means Utah Code § 10-1-301 et seq., the “Municipal Energy Sales and
Use Tax Act.”

D. “Sale” shall mean any transfer of title, exchange, or barter, conditional or otherwise,
in any manner, of taxable energy or fuel for consideration. It includes:

E. “Installment and credit sale” means

1. Any closed transaction constituting a sale; and

2. Any transaction under which right to acquire, use, or consume taxable energy
is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable if an
outright sale were made.

i, “Storage” means any keeping or retention of taxable energy in White City for any
purpose, except the sales in the regular course of business.

j. “Use” means the exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy, excluding the sale, display,
demonstration, or trial of the taxable energy in the regular course of business and or
taxable energy which is held for resale.

3.80.030 Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Levied

Pursuant to Utah Code §59-12-301 et seq., the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act,

there is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this Ordinance, a tax on every Sale or

Use of taxable energy made within White City equaling 6% of the value of the taxable

energy to the consumer and effective on and after October 1, 2024. This tax shall be known

as the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax (“MET”). The MET shall be calculated on the
delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. The MET shall be in addition to any
sales or use tax imposed by White City under Utah Code §59-12-201 et seq., the Local

Sales and Use Tax Act.

3.80.040 Exemptions

Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-1-305(2)(b), the MET exempts from its terms the sale and use

of:

A. Aviation fuel, motor fuel, or special fuel which is subject to taxation under Utah Code
§ 59-13;

B. Taxable energy where the primary use is for compounding or producing taxable energy
or a fuel which is subject to taxation under Utah Code § 59-13;

C. Taxable energy that White City is prohibited from taxing under federal law or the
Constitutions of the United States or Utah;

D. Taxable energy purchased or stored in White City for resale;

2

E. Taxable energy brought into the state by a nonresident for his or her own personal use
while in the state, except taxable energy purchased for use in the state by a nonresident
living or working in the state at the time of purchase;

F. Taxable energy for any purpose other than use as a fuel or energy; and

G. Taxable energy for use outside of White City.

Hf, Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-1-305(4), the sale, storage, use, or other consumption of
taxable energy is exempt from the MET if:

1. The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a municipal energy
sales and use tax levied by another municipality within Utah under an ordinance
enacted in accordance with the MET Act; and

2. White City shall be paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under the MET if the tax due
under the MET exceeds the tax paid to the other municipality.

The MET further incorporates all other exemptions required by Utah law.
3.80.050 No Effect Upon Existing Franchises; Credits for Franchise Fees
This MET shall not alter any existing franchise agreements unless otherwise terminated or
altered by agreement or applicable law. Any energy supplier who (a) pays a contractual
franchise fee to White City pursuant to a contract which was in effect as of July 1, 1997, (b)
passes the fee through to taxpayers as a separately itemized charge, and (c) accepts the
franchise shall receive a tax credit equal to its contractual franchise fee.
3.80.060 Tax Collection Contract With the Tax Commission
A. Onor before the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, White
City shall contract with the state Tax Commission to perform all functions related to the
administration and collection of the MET, save those functions reserved to White City
by law and described below. The Mayor and City Recorder are hereby authorized to
enter into such agreement or amended agreement as needed with the state Tax
Commission that may be necessary to the continued administration and operation of the
MET.
B. An energy supplier shall pay the MET collected from its consumers directly to White
City monthly if:
1. White City is the energy supplier; or
3

2. The energy supplier estimates that the MET collected annually from its Utah
consumers equals one million U.S. dollars ($1,000,000.00) or more and (c) the
energy supplier collects the MET.

C. An energy supplier paying the MET directly to White City may retain the percent of the
tax authorized under Utah Code § 59-12-108(2) for energy supplier’s cost of collecting
and remitting the tax.

3.80.070 State Statutes Incorporated

A. Except as herein provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of the MET Act, as well as this Chapter, all of the provisions of Utah Code
§ 59-12-1, as amended, and in force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as
they relate to the sales and use taxes levied therein, are hereby adopted and made a
part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein.

B. Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code § 59-12-1 or the MET Act the State of
Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of White City shall be
substituted, insofar as is necessary for the purposes of those parts. In no event shall the
word “state” be substituted when used in junction with the “state tax commission,”
nor shall the State Tax Commission be substituted with White City in any way or for
any matter of liability which is assigned by statute to the State Tax Commission.

C. Any amendments made to Utah Code § 59-12-1 that relate to levying or collecting a
municipal energy sales and use tax are hereby adopted by reference.

3.080.080 No Additional License or Reporting Required

No additional license to collect or report the MET tax is required, provided the energy

supplier collecting the tax has a license issued under Utah Code § 59-12-106.

2. Enactment of TLT. The following is enacted as Chapter 3.90 of the White City Municipal Code:
3.90.010 Purpose
It is the intent of the Council to adopt a TLT pursuant to, and in conformance with, Utah Code
§ 10-1-401 et seq., the “Telecommunications License Tax Act.”
3.90.020 Definitions. All words and phrases in this Chapter shall have the same meaning
given them in the TLT Act, with the following additions:
A. “TLT” means a telecommunications license tax authorized under the TLT Act.
B. “TLT Act” means the Telecommunications License Tax Act, Utah Code § 10-1-401 et seq.
4

3.90.030 TLT Levied
There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this Chapter, a tax on the gross receipts of
telecommunications services attributable to White City in accordance with Utah Code §§ 59-
12 and 10-1-407. The rate of the TLT shall equal 3.5% of each telecommunications provider’s
gross receipts from telecommunications services that are attributed to White City. The tax shall
be effective on and after October 1, 2024. White City may exceed this rate if a higher rate is
approved by a majority vote among those persons who vote in a municipal general election or
a regular general election.
3.90.040 Agreement With the Tax Commission
On or before the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, White City
shall enter a uniform interlocal agreement described in Utah Code § 10-1-405 with the Utah
Tax Commission.
3.90.050 Procedure for Taxes Erroneously Recovered from Customers
A customer may not bring a cause of action against a telecommunications provider on the basis
that the telecommunications provider erroneously recovered from the customer municipal
telecommunications license taxes authorized by this ordinance unless the customer meets the
same requirements that a purchaser is required to meet to bring a cause of action against a
seller for a refund or credit as provided in Utah Code § 59-12-110.1(3).
3. Notice to Utah State Tax Commission. The Mayor is directed and authorized to execute and
send the letter attached to this ordinance to the Utah State Tax Commission.
4. Effective Date of MET and TLT. The MET and TLT will become effective on and after
October 1, 2024, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-1-304(3)(b).
5. Agreements with Utah State Tax Commission. On or before the effective date of the MET Tax,
the Mayor shall execute agreements that are in substantially the same form as Attachment 2 of the
attached letter, unless the Commission requires another form or format, in which case the Mayor
will present such agreement(s) to the Council for review and approval.
6. Direction to Mayor and Staff. The Council directs the Mayor and White City staff to take all
actions necessary to implement this ordinance.
7. Effective Date of Ordinance. This ordinance shall take effect as soon as it is posted pursuant
to Utah Code §10-3-711, deposited, and recorded in the office of the City Recorder.
[Execution on following page|
5

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the White City Council on
this 6" day of June 2024.
“Led 4: p .
By: Paulina F Flint, Mayor
ATTEST: APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Lannie Chapman City Attorney
Salt Lake County Clerk
VOTING:
A u
Council Member Flint voting Ae
Council Member Shelton voting * NE
Council Member Price voting *ANC
Council Member Cardenaz voting Eycused
Council Member Huish voting ANC?
(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code
§10-3-711:
Effective date of ordinance: 0, 2
6

SUMMARY OF WHITE CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-04
On June 6, 2024, the White City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2024-O-04 to enact: (1) Chapter 3.80 of the
White City Municipal Code to establish a municipal energy sales and use tax pursuant to the Municipal Energy
Sales and Use Tax, Utah Code § 10-1-301 et seg.; and (2) Chapter 3.90 of the White City Municipal Code to
establish a municipal telecommunications license tax pursuant to the Municipal Telecommunications License
Act, Utah Code § 10-1-401 et seq.
WHITE CITY
bel Lot
By: Paulina F. Flint, Mayor
ATTEST: APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Y | J) { i) 1 tt pepe City Attorney
Lannie Chapman
Salt Lake County Clerk
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2024-O-04 is available in the office of the White
City Recorder, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.

<l WILE Cy T}-
June 6, 2024
— Sent via email to: salestaxdist@utah.gov
Utah Tax Commission
210 North 1950 West
Salt Lake City, Utah 84134
Paulina Ftint / Chair
White Cty, UTe4094 Re: —_ Notice of Enactment of Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax and Municipal
pbflint@yahoo.com Telecommunications License Tax
(801)571-5257
Phillip Cardenaz To Whom It May Concern,
1166 E. Electra Lane
Pathe deere tte Pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-1-304(3)(b) and 10-1-403(3)(b), White City (“White City”)
p. @amail. . : on anne -
(916)397-6104 hereby provides notice to the Tax Commission of White City’s intent to enact a Municipal
; Energy Sales and Use Tax (“MET”) and a Telecommunications License Tax (“TLT”) by
es Larkspur Dr. ordinance. White City is authorized to enact the MET under 10-1-301 et seg. and the TLT
White City, UT 84094 under Utah Code §§ 10-1-401 et seq.
thuish@whitecity.utah.gov
480)848-3457 .
(480) The effective date of the MET and TLT shall be the first day of the first yearly quarter that
Linda Price — begins at least 90 days after you receive this notice, which date is October 1, 2024. The rate
Wnite Co, oY 5094 of the MET shall be 6% of the value of the taxable energy delivered to the consumer. The
pricell@amail.com rate of the TLT shall be 3.5% of the gross receipts of telecommunications services
(801)419-3013 attributable to White City. More details are included hereto in the Notices of Change in Sales
Greg Shelton Tax Rate attached hereto as Attachment 1.
1224 E 10600 S
White City, UT 84094 City must enter into agreements with the Commission enlisting your services in performing
Greg.shelton@amail.com certain functions related to the administration or operation of the MET and TLT, with some
(801)810-9638 exceptions. White City respectfully requests the Commission’s aid in reaching an amenable
agreement. Proposed agreements between the Commission and White City for the MET and
TLT are attached hereto as Attachment 2.
Respectfully,
White City
Mayor Paulina F. Flint

Attachment 1
Notices of Change in Sales Tax Rate
5

(EEE Utah State Tax Commission TC-62NOC
(fa Notice of Change in Sales Tax Rate Rev. 6/23
———
es  6axX.Utah.gov
ounty ity, town or entity
Salt Lake County White City
ontact name Email address Phone
Paulina Flint, Mayor pflint@WhiteCity.utah.gov @WhiteCity.utah.gov | (801) 571-5257
ax type ew tax rate fective date (sée instructions) ==—SOS
municipal energy sales and use tax October 1, 2024
Statutory authority for this tax (Utah Code title, chapter, section and subsection, if applicable)
Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax, UCA 10-1-301 et seq.
> This change is a(n): I!| New tax
O Repeal of an existing tax
O Increase of an existing tax rate
XO Decrease of an existing tax rate
O Annexation resulting in the enactment or repeal of tax in the annexed area
Instructions
A locality must file this form with the Tax Commission whenever it enacts, repeals, increases or decreases a sales and use
tax rate, or when land annexation will result in a tax rate change for existing businesses.
In the case of an annexation, include a list of existing businesses annexed into the locality. Include a copy of the
ordinance, if available.
Effective date
Tax rate changes are effective the first day of a calendar quarter. The Tax Commission must receive this form, filled out
compietely, at least 90 days before an effective date.
Effective date Notice must be received by
January 1 October 1 (of the previous year)
April 1 January 1
July 1 April 1
October 1 July 1
Submitting the Form
Email this form (and a list of affected business, if annexation) to: salestaxdist@utah.gov

Ji Utah State Tax Commission TC-62NOC
ar ON . .
(ao) Notice of Change in Sales Tax Rate Rey 8/23
ei eee Ciétasx. urtalh gov
ounty ity. town or entity
Salt Lake County White City
ontact name Email address Phone
Paulina Flint, Mayor | pflint@WhiteCity utah. gov (801) 571-5257
Tax type New tax rate Effective date (see instructions
municipal telecommunications license tax | 3.5% October 1, 2024
Statutory authority for this tax (Utah Code title, chapter, section and subsection, if applicable)
Municipal Telecommunications License Tax Act, UCA 10-1-401 et seq.
» This change is a(n): {!! New tax
CO Repeal of an existing tax
C Increase of an existing tax rate
C1 Decrease of an existing tax rate
O Annexation resulting in the enactment or repeal of tax in the annexed area
Instructions
A locality must file this form with the Tax Commission whenever it enacts, repeals, increases or decreases a sales and use
tax rate, or when land annexation will result in a tax rate change for existing businesses.
In the case of an annexation, include a list of existing businesses annexed into the locality. Include a copy of the
ordinance, if available.
Effective date
Tax rate changes are effective the first day of a calendar quarter. The Tax Commission must receive this form, filled out
completely, at least 90 days before an effective date.
Effective date Notice must be received by
January 1 October 1 (of the previous year)
April 1 January 1
July 1 April 1
October 1 July 1
Submitting the Form
Email this form (and a list of affected business, if annexation) to: salestaxdist@utah.gov

Attachment 2
Agreements Between Utah State Tax Commission and White City
6

AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE UTAH STATE TAX COMMISSION AND
A MUNICIPALITY THAT HAS IMPOSED
THE MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX

This Agreement is made by and between the Utah State Tax Commission
(hereinafter “Commission”) and White City (hereinafter “White City”).

WHEREAS, Utah Code Section 10-1-305 requires White City to enter into an
Agreement with the Commission on or before the effective date of White City's ordinance
imposing the municipal energy sales and use tax; and

WHEREAS, the purpose of the Agreement is to ensure that the municipal energy
sales and use tax is appropriately imposed and collected.

NOW THEREFORE, Commission and White City do hereby agree as follows:

1. White City has adopted an ordinance to impose the municipal energy sales and use tax
under Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 3 of the Utah Code.

2. Commission shall transmit monies collected under the municipal energy sales and
use tax monthly by electronic funds transfer to White City.

3. Commission shall conduct audits of the municipal energy sales and use tax with the
same frequency and diligence as it does with the state sales and use tax.

4. Commission shall charge White City for the Commission's services in an amount
sufficient to reimburse Commission for Commission's costs of administering, collecting,
and enforcing the municipal energy sales and use tax. Commission's charge to White City
may not exceed the amount prescribed under Utah Code Section 59-1-306.

5. Commission shall collect, enforce, and administer the municipal energy sales and use tax
pursuant to the same procedures used in the administration, collection, and enforcement of
the state sales and use tax as provided in Utah Code Section 10-1-307.

6. This Agreement shall be in effect for a term of one year from the effective date and shall
be automatically renewed from year to year. The effective date of this Agreement shall be
the first day of October 1, 2024, following the notice required under Utah Code Section
10-1-304.

[Execution on following page}
3

FOR THE UTAH STATE TAX COMMISSION
(Name/Position) Date Signed
FOR WHITE CITY
sf. £- 6-20.24.
Paulina Flint, Mayor Date Signed
4

AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE UTAH STATE TAX COMMISSION AND
A MUNICIPALITY THAT HAS IMPOSED
A TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE TAX

This Agreement is made by and between the Utah State Tax Commission
(hereinafter “Commission”) and White City (hereinafter “White City”).

WHEREAS, Utah Code Section 10-1-404 requires White City to enter into an
Agreement with the Commission on or before the effective date of Kearn’s ordinance imposing
the telecommunications license tax; and

WHEREAS, the purpose of the Agreement is to ensure that the
telecommunications license tax is appropriately imposed and collected.

NOW THEREFORE, Commission and White City do hereby agree as follows:

1. White City has adopted an ordinance to impose the telecommunications license tax
under Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 4.

2. Commission shall transmit monies collected under the telecommunications license
tax monthly by electronic funds transfer to White City.

3. Commission shall conduct audits of the telecommunications license tax with the same
frequency and diligence as it does with the state sales and use tax.

4. Commission shall charge White City for the Commission’s services in an amount
sufficient to reimburse Commission for Commission’s costs of administering, collecting,
and enforcing the municipal energy sales and use tax. Commission’s charge to White City
may not exceed the amount prescribed under Section 59-1-306.

5. Commission shall collect, enforce, and administer the municipal energy sales and use tax
pursuant to the same procedures used in the administration, collection, and enforcement of
the state sales and use tax as provided in Utah Code Section 10-1-405.

6. This Agreement shall be in effect for a term of one year from the effective date and shall
be automatically renewed from year to year. The effective date of this Agreement shall be
the first day of October 1, 2024, following the notice required under Section 10-1-403.

[Execution on following page|

FOR THE UTAH STATE TAX COMMISSION
(Name/Position) Date Signed
FOR WHITE CITY
Las
| 6-6-2024
Paulina Flint, Mayor Date Signed
