                                                                 April 13, 2023

                             Mayor Jenny Wilson
                             Salt Lake County
  Mayor Kelly F. Bush        2001 S. State Street
 Kearns Metro Township       Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
   lobkb973@hotmail.com

                             Unified Police Department
                             Marcus Stevenson, Chair
                             3365 South 900 West
                             Salt Lake City, Utah 84119

                             Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area
  Mayor Dan W. Peay          Jim Bradley, Chair
 Magna Metro Township        3365 South 900 West
  grandpapeay@msn.com        Salt Lake City, Utah 84119

                                    Re:     H.B. 374 Implementation

                             Dear Colleagues:

  Mayor Paulina Flint               Attached please find a resolution that sets forth the joint position of the Metro
White City Metro Township    Townships of Emigration Canyon, Kearns, Magna, and White City, as well as the
    pbflint@yahoo.com
                             Town of Brighton regarding the implementation of H.B. 374 (County Sheriff
                             Amendments), which the Utah Legislature passed during the 2023 legislative session.
                             Although the Kearns Metro Township adopted the attached resolution, the other
                             undersigned municipalities adopted nearly identical resolutions.

                                     Notwithstanding our initial questions and concerns about H.B. 374, we
                             recognize that the bill provides an opportunity to improve upon the current law
  Mayor Joe Smolka
Emigration Canyon Metro
                             enforcement model with the Unified Police Department (“UPD”) that has served our
       Township              communities well. As the resolution explains, however, developing a long-term
  joesmolka@ecmetro.org      successor to the current model that will stand the test of time will likely require more
                             time than H.B. 374 provides. As a result, we support the development of a short-term
                             law enforcement arrangement that will comply with H.B. 374 and the current statutory
                             framework. Such a near-term arrangement should ensure that UPD’s member entities
                             receive law enforcement services beyond the bill’s 2025 effective date but should not
                             preclude any of UPD’s member entities from considering or implementing other long-
                             term law enforcement models. To begin the process of developing a near-term law
                             enforcement arrangement, we believe the current UPD interlocal agreement could be
 Mayor Daniel E. Knopp
                             restated to comply with the requirements of H.B. 374 and have directed our city
    Town of Brighton         attorneys to explore the feasibility of this option.
danknopp@brighton.utah.gov

                                     We also believe that the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area
                             (“SLVLESA”) is likely the only legal mechanism by which the metro townships can
                             fund law enforcement services. In addition, as a fully independent special district,
                             SLVLESA cannot be unilaterally dissolved pursuant to Utah Code §§ 17B-1-103 and
                             17B-1-501, et seq. Similarly, the withdrawal provisions that apply to law enforcement
                             service districts – Utah Code §§ 17B-1-505 and -505.5 – only allow municipalities to
withdraw and do not provide a mechanism by which counties can withdraw from such
districts. For these and other reasons the resolution explains in greater detail, we must
oppose any effort to dissolve SLVLESA or to withdraw the County from SLVLESA.

        Because SLVLESA must play a key role in funding any successor we may
develop to the current UPD law enforcement model, at least in the near-term, we call
on the SLVLESA Board of Trustees to hire a general manager and/or legal counsel as
soon as possible. We also ask the SLVLESA Board of Trustees to request training
from the Utah Association of Special Districts on the laws and regulations that apply
to special districts generally and, on the laws and regulations that apply to SLVLESA
specifically.

       We look forward to working with you to implement H.B. 374.

                                                      Sincerely,



 Daniel E. Kopp                               Joe Smolka, Mayor
 Town of Brighton                             Emigration Canyon Metro Township



 Kelly F. Bush, Mayor                         Dan W. Peay, Mayor
 Kearns Metro Township                        Magna Metro Township



 Paulina Flint, Mayor
 White City Metro Township



Enclosure

cc:    Rep. Jordan Teuscher, sponsor of H.B. 374
       Mayor Robert Dahle, Holladay
       Mayor Jeff Silvestrini, Millcreek
