                                          WHITE CITY

           Ordinance No. 2024-0-05                               Date: October 3, 2024

     AN ORDINANCE OF THE WHITE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING SUBDIVISION
                      PROVISIONS AND PROCEDURES


                                            RECITALS
WHEREAS, White City is a municipality and has authority to regulate subdivisions in general
pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection 10-3c-103(2); and
WHEREAS, White City passed an ordinance amending its Subdivision Ordinance on
February 1, 2024; and
WHEREAS, revisions to the existing Subdivision Ordinance of White City are required to comply
with House Bill 476 (2024); and
WHEREAS, White City has authority to adopt subdivision regulations and procedures pursuant
to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-501 or identify other statute or ordinance that provides authority in
accordance with the Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Chapter
9a, Utah Code, to establish an administrative land use authority for subdivisions and other
provisions as necessary and appropriate to comply with House Bill 476 (2024); and
WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its ordinances accordingly, and for the
protection and preservation of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE WHITE CITY COUNCIL as follows:

1.      Title 18 is repealed and replaced to read as shown on Attachment A to this Ordinance.

2.     Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this Ordinance
is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or specific application of this
Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full force and effect.

3.     Direction. Staff, including counsel, are directed and authorized to make such non­
substantive changes and corrections and take other actions necessary for the finalization,
publication, and posting of this Ordinance.

4.      Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting and publication
as required by law.
                                   [execution on following page]
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 3rd day of October 2024.
                                        WHITE CITY COUNCIL


                                           �.i�•.             /!;t9L-t
                                        By: Paulina F. Flint, Mayor




                                        CITY ATIO

Voting:
Mayor Flint                      voting Aye
Council Member Shelton           voting Aye
Council Member Price             voting Aye
Council Member Cardenaz          voting Aye
Council Member Huish             voting Aye


  (Complete as Applicable)
  Date ordinance summary was published in accordance with Utah Code § 10-3-711:

  Effective date of ordinance: October 10, 2024_________
ATTACHMENT A
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 1 of 57

Title 18 SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 18.02 TITLE PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
CHAPTER 18.04 SUBDIVISION PLANS AND PLATS REQUIRED
CHAPTER 18.06 GENERAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 18.08 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF A SUBDIVISION
CHAPTER 18.10 DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS
CHAPTER 18.12 DESIGN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 18.14 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
CHAPTER 18.16 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES
CHAPTER 18.18 SUBDIVISION AMENDMENTS
CHAPTER 18.20 FILLING PROFESSIONAL SURVEYS
CHAPTER 18.22 HEALTH DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 18.24 FEES, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 18.26 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES

CHAPTER 18.02 TITLE PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
18.02.010 TITLE
18.02.020 PURPOSE
18.02.030 APPLICABILITY
18.02.040 SEVERABILITY

18.02.010 Title
This Title is known as “The Subdivision Ordinance of White City.” This Title is also known
as Title 18, the White City Subdivision Ordinance. References to “Ordinance” within this
Title refer to this Title.

18.02.020 Purpose
A. This Ordinance is intended to promote the health, safety, morals, order, prosperity and welfare
of the inhabitants of White City which includes:

           1. Facilitating the orderly development of the municipality;

           2. Securing efficiency in governmental expenditures;

           3. Implementing the municipality’s transportation plan;

           4. Facilitating the development of a safe and efficient street system;

           5. Facilitating the orderly transfer of the ownership of building sites in a manner
consistent with state law;

            6. Ensuring adequate water, sewer, drainage, utilities, and other services to developing
areas of the municipality; and

            7. Establishing the rights, duties, and responsibilities of subdividers with respect to the
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 2 of 57

development of subdivisions within the municipality.

18.02.030 Applicability
All land within the jurisdictional limits of White City is subject to the provisions of this Title.

18.02.040 Severability
If any provision of this Title is adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, that
judgment does not affect, impair, invalidate or nullify the remaining provisions of this Title. The
effect of the judgment is confined to the provision immediately involved in the controversy in
which the judgment or decree was rendered.

CHAPTER 18.04 SUBDIVISION PLANS AND PLATS REQUIRED
18.04.010 Subdivision Plats Required
18.04.020 Exemption From Plat Requirements
18.04.030 Lots Created By Metes And Bounds Description
18.04.040 Development Agreements

18.04.010 Subdivision Plats Required
No person may subdivide, as defined by Chapter 19.04 of the Municipal Code, any tract of land
within the jurisdictional limits of the municipality; nor may any person sell, exchange, purchase
or otherwise convey a parcel of land which is part of a larger tract, if such sale or agreement would
have the effect of creating a “subdivision” as defined by Municipal Code, unless and until a Final
Plat, prepared in accordance with the provisions of this Title, has been reviewed and approved by
the appropriate decision-making body consistent with this Title and recorded in the Office of the
Salt Lake County Recorder.

18.04.020 Exemption From Plat Requirements
A. A division that complies with the following standards is exempt from plat requirements:

            1. The original property qualifies as land in agricultural use under Utah Code Section
59-2-502;

           2. Each resulting parcel will comply with the minimum lot size requirement of the
applicable zone in which the property is located;

             3. The property does not contain any existing residential units and each of the resulting
parcels will not be used for nonagricultural purposes;

            4. The boundaries of each lot or parcel are graphically illustrated on a record of survey
map, in accordance with Utah Code Section 17-23-17, that is presented to the municipality. Upon
approval of the parcel by the Director or designee the record of survey map shall be recorded with
the Salt Lake County Surveyor in addition to a subsequent notice of interest referring to the
affected parcels and record of survey index with the Salt Lake County Recorder; and

            5. If a parcel exempted under Section 18.04.020 is used for a nonagricultural purpose,
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 3 of 57

that lot or parcel shall comply with the platting and improvement requirements of this Title.

B. Parcel Boundary Adjustments. Parcel boundary adjustments are exempt from plat requirements.

           1. A “parcel boundary adjustment” means a recorded agreement between owners of
adjoining properties adjusting their mutual boundary if:

           2. No additional parcel is created; and

           3. Each property identified in the agreement is unsubdivided land, including a
remainder of subdivided land.

18.04.030 Lots Created By Metes And Bounds Description
A. In order to ensure the accurate location of property lines and the location of future construction
and land uses within those property lines; ensure the orderly dedication of rights-of-way for
public thoroughfares; and facilitate the orderly transfer of ownership of buildable lots, no property
created by a “metes and bounds” description and recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder
may be considered eligible for the issuance of a building permit unless:

            1. The property is recognized as a legal lot of record by the Director or designee, meets
all current zoning standards, and a plat describing such parcel of land is approved by the Director
or designee and recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder;

           2. The property has been recognized by the Director or designee as a legal
nonconforming lot of record, a plat describing such parcel of land is approved by the Director or
designee and the plat is recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder; or

            3. The division of property by a “metes and bounds” description is permitted by the
applicable law.

B. A plat authorized by this Section shall be prepared in accordance with final plat requirements
of this Title. The improvements required by Titles 14 and 18 of the White City Municipal Code
shall be installed at the property owner’s or applicant’s expense.

C. If a property qualifies as a legal lot of record or a legal nonconforming lot of record and is
already developed with a dwelling unit, no plat is required. However, a street dedication may still
be required.

18.04.040 Development Agreements
A. The developer/property owner and the municipality may choose to enter into a development
agreement that outlines the duties, responsibilities, obligations, commitments and promises of the
developer/property owner and the commitments of the municipality.

B. A development agreement does not exempt a developer/property owner from complying with
this Title or any part of the Development Code unless such an exemption is clearly contained
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 4 of 57

within the executed development agreement after the planning commission has held a public
hearing and provided a recommendation.


C. The development agreement shall be recorded by the municipality at the Salt Lake County
Recorder's Office. Recordation by the municipality may only take place after all of the necessary
signatures are obtained, all approvals given, and all bonds and fees posted. The development
agreement must be recorded prior to the recording of the final plat. The White City Council may
approve a development agreement as a legislative action. Consideration of a development
agreement is separate from any consideration of or decision a preliminary or final subdivision
application or plat.

D. Any development agreement entered into by a developer/property owner and the municipality
shall comply with the provisions identified in Utah Code Section 10-9a-532.

CHAPTER 18.06 GENERAL REGULATIONS
18.06.010 Time Limits
18.06.020 Exceptions-Permitted When
18.06.030 Appeals

18.06.010 Time Limits
A. Subdivision applications are subject to expiration according to the following schedule unless,
for good cause shown, the applicant is granted an extension of time by the Director:

           1. A subdivision application expires if the applicant has not filed all of the required
documents for preliminary plat approval with Planning and Development Services within six (6)
months of the submission of a complete application.

           2. A preliminary plat approval expires if a complete final plat application is not
submitted to Planning and Development Services within one (1) year of the preliminary plat
approval.

           3. A preliminary subdivision with an approved phasing plan is granted an automatic
preliminary subdivision extension of one (1) year each time a complete final plat application for
one or more phases is submitted.

            4. A subdivision application expires if the final plat has not been recorded with the Salt
Lake County Recorder’s Office within six (6) months of the date of the last of the required
signatures on the plat.

            5. Failure to pursue an application, as evidenced by failure to file a complete
application, the lack of timely resubmittals to the Development Review Committee’s comments
and corrections, or failure to communicate delays in a timely manner, shall result in the expiration
of the application after six (6) months of inaction.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 5 of 57

18.06.020 EXCEPTIONS-PERMITTED WHEN
A. In cases where unusual topographic, aesthetic or other exceptional conditions exist or the
welfare, best interests and safety of the general public will be usefully served or protected,
variations and exceptions of this Title may be made by the administrative land use authority at
preliminary approval after the recommendation of the Municipal Engineer as provided in
Subsection B, provided, that such variations and exceptions may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this
Title.

B. Any variation or exception from engineering standards required by this Title must be based on
a recommendation by the Municipal Engineer shall address the following:

           1. Strict adherence to this ordinance is not in keeping with sound engineering practice;

           2. The variation or exception is the minimal variation or exception to this ordinance to
keep with sound engineering practice; and

           3. The variation or exception is associated with a specific hardship at a specific location
and not a generally applicable condition.

18.06.030 Appeals
The applicant or any person adversely affected by a final decision on a subdivision may appeal the
decision to the Land Use Hearing Officer by filing a letter to the Planning and Development
Services stating the reasons for appeal within ten (10) days after the decision. The Land Use
Hearing Officer shall review the record and the decision to determine whether the decision was
arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. After hearing the appeal, the Land Use Hearing Officer may affirm,
reverse, alter or remand the decision for further consideration. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any
appeal from the Subdivision Improvement Plans shall comply with Utah Code Sections 10-9a-
604.2(8) and 10-9a-508(5)(d).

18.06.040 DEFINITIONS
All terms pertaining to the development or division of land as defined in Chapter 19.04 of the
White City Zoning Ordinance shall also be applicable to this Title.

CHAPTER 18.08 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF A SUBDIVISION
18.08.010 Approval Authority
18.08.020 Review Procedures-Director To Administer
18.08.030 Development Review Committee
18.08.040 Subdivision Procedure Generally
18.08.050 Concept Plan
18.08.060 Preliminary Plat Application
18.08.070 Preliminary Plat Agency/DRC Review
18.08.090 Submittal Of The Final Plat, Engineering Drawings And Documents To The
Development Review Committee For Final Plat Approval
18.08.100 Combined Applications
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 6 of 57

18.08.110 Recording The Final Plat
18.08.120 As Built Drawings
18.08.140 Definitions

18.08.010 Approval Authority
A. The planning commission is the administrative land use authority for all preliminary plat
approvals of five (5) or fewer lots that do not include:

           1. The creation of a new public or private street or road, and/or

           2. A request to amend or waive certain public improvement requirements found in
Chapter 18.14.

B. The Planning Commission is the administrative land use authority for all preliminary plat
approvals of greater than five (5) lots, and subdivisions for multifamily, commercial, or industrial
uses.

C. The Council may not consider or approve a subdivision plat as part of its approval of a
legislative action.

D. A final subdivision plat application may only be approved by the Director, and only upon
approval by all members of the Development Review Committee and all major utility providers.
Any correspondence from a municipal agency, employee, or officer other than the planning
commission for preliminary approvals, and the Director for review cycles and final approvals,
directly with an applicant may not be deemed White City’s response to the application for purposes
of determining review cycles.

18.08.020 Review Procedures-Director To Administer
In order to ensure that each subdivision fully complies with the provisions of this Title, the Director
or designee shall administer formal application and review procedures for subdivisions. An
application may not be deemed complete until the full application, fees and all required materials
have been submitted to Planning and Development Services. The payment of a partial fee and
submission of conceptual plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete
application.

18.08.030 Development Review Committee
A. The Development Review Committee (DRC) is the Planning and Development Services staff,
in consultation with agencies with statutory review and approval authority for engineering, health,
fire, and surveying reviews and services. Comments from other affected entities, service providers
or other reviewing agencies may also be solicited as needed. The Development Review Committee
is an extension of the Director and serves as the Director’s designee with the following
responsibilities:

          1. Establish subdivision application forms, checklists, and standard operating
procedures;
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 7 of 57


          2. Review development applications, including concept plans, subdivisions,
commercial site plans and project plans;

         3. Provide recommendations to the Planning Commission and/or Council regarding
development applications that require their approval;

            4. Review subdivision final plats and construction drawings, and to approve, approve
with conditions or deny final plats and construction drawings; and

           5. Hold preconstruction meetings for approved subdivision plats and other applicable
development projects.

18.08.040 Subdivision Procedure Generally
The applicant shall prepare and submit a land use application, including fees, in accordance with
this Title and Planning and Development Services policy. The applicant may submit a concept
plan. While the concept plan is optional except under the circumstances provided herein, a
preliminary and a final plat are required.

                    Figure 18.08.040: Procedure for Subdivision Processing.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 8 of 57




                                      [concept review is optional]

18.08.050 Concept Plan
    A. Except as otherwise stated in this Title, a Concept Plan review is not a mandatory step.

   B. Any person seeking to subdivide land within the municipal boundaries may request a pre-
      application meeting or concept plan review. White City highly recommends a pre-
      application concept plan review meeting prior to submitting a Preliminary Subdivision Plat
      Application. A preapplication concept plan meeting is optional, is not a land use application
      for the purposes of vesting, and does not count toward the maximum number of review
      cycles for subdivision land use applications. Within fifteen (15) business days after the
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 9 of 57

       request, the city planning staff committee shall schedule the meeting to review the concept
       plan and give initial feedback.

   C. The purpose of a concept plan review is to provide a potential applicant with an economical
       way to work with the planning staff in reaching a general agreement as to the nature of a
       proposed land subdivision project, its impact on the community, and its conformance with
       the codes, ordinances, plans and policies. For the concept plan review, the potential
       applicant will not need detailed architectural or engineering drawings.

   D. An applicant may submit a concept plan if the applicant desires to obtain input from
      Planning and Development Services staff or the administrative land use authority prior to
      undertaking the preparation and submission of a complete preliminary plat.

   E. Prior to a concept plan review, the Applicant shall submit to the Director or designee a
       complete concept plan application, including documents, fees, any items specified under
       Section 18.10.020, and any other matter appropriately required by the Development
       Review Committee.

   F. When the concept plan application is complete and accepted by the Director or designee,
      the date of acceptance will be noted. The Development Review Committee shall, within
      fifteen (15) business days of the date of acceptance, schedule a meeting to review the
      concept plan and give initial feedback.

G. At or before the scheduled pre-application meeting, White City shall provide the applicant with,
or make available on its official website, the following:

      1. Copies of applicable land use regulations, including this Chapter;

      2. A complete list of standards required for the proposed project;

      3. Preliminary and final application checklists; and

      4. Feedback on the concept plan.

H. Where the applicant owns or controls more territory than they propose to submit for preliminary
or final approval, or under circumstances where the proposed subdivision is part of a larger project
or territory which the applicant owns or controls and which includes property in more than one
zone, the Director may require that a concept plan covering the larger area be submitted. The
concept plan for the larger area shall show how the immediate development relates to:

           1. Possible development of the remaining territory;

           2. White City’s adopted transportation or street plan, and

           3. The provision of other public services, utilities and facilities.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 10 of 57


I. If the Director concludes that, because of the scope or complexity of a proposed project, the
proposal should be reviewed by the administrative land use authority at the concept plan stage,
they may direct that the plan be forwarded for review by the administrative land use authority prior
to the preparation of the preliminary plat.

J. Any review of a concept plan by the administrative land use authority shall be considered as
advisory only and may not constitute a commitment of approval of a subsequent preliminary plat
or final plat.

18.08.060 Preliminary Plat Application
A. Application. The applicant shall submit a preliminary plat application to the Planning and
Development Services Division, which shall include:

           1. Submission of an approved application form that clearly indicates the type of
application, property address, applicant information, and other pertinent information;

            2. Submission of a preliminary plat and other drawings and documentation conforming
to the requirements of Section 18.10.030, technical reports in accordance with Section 18.10.050,
supplementary materials as required by this Title and mailing labels (if required) for notifications,
including a copy of all plans in PDF format;

           3. Authorization for application submittal from the property owner and, if applicable,
authorized agent, in the form of an owner’s affidavit; and

          4. All items required on the Preliminary Subdivision Application Checklist published
on White City’s official website.

B. Completeness Review.

           1. The preliminary plat application shall be carefully reviewed by Planning and
Development Services to determine whether or not it is complete as soon as practicable after
submission.

           2. If it is concluded that the preliminary plat application is not complete, the Director
or designee shall notify the applicant in writing within fifteen (15) business days:

                a. That the application is incomplete; and

                b. The specific components of the application deemed insufficient.

            3. After notice is given, an application deemed incomplete automatically terminates
after sixty (60) days if the necessary components to complete the application have not been
submitted.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 11 of 57

             4. At any time during the completeness review process outlined in this subsection, a
pre- application meeting may be requested by the applicant or Director or designee to discuss the
application, plans, and anticipated review process. In order to facilitate efficiency of the
review process, the Director or designee may invite representatives from other reviewing agencies
as well as the applicant’s design professionals to the meeting.

C. Complete Application.

             1. When the preliminary plat application is determined to include all the of the required
documentation, plans, plats, reports and other required submittals, the Director shall release the
fees for the applicant to pay.

           2. When the applicant has paid the required fees, the application is determined
complete, and the application is accepted by the Director or designee, the date of acceptance will
be noted for the record.

18.08.070 Preliminary Plat Agency/DRC Review
A. The purpose of a preliminary plat is to provide a review of a proposed subdivision prior to
approval by the land use authority. It is intended that this review will help assure that the plans
which are being prepared are in accordance with all applicable development codes and ordinances.

B. The Director or designee shall review or cause to be reviewed, the complete preliminary plat
application as follows:

          1. No later than fifteen (15) business days after submittal of a complete application, the
Development Review Committee shall review of the preliminary plat and preparation of review
comments.

            2. The Director or designee shall review the application materials, plans, plats,
subdivision improvement plans, and technical documents for compliance with municipal land use
ordinances, codes and adopted plans and specifications, and other technical requirements. As part
of this review, the Director or designee may conduct one or more on-site reviews, as provided by
Utah Code Section 10-9a-303.

           3. The Director or designee shall refer the application materials, plans, plats, and
technical documents to the Development Review Committee and any other government agency
and/or affected entity which the Director deems necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the public and to ensure the project’s compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes and
adopted plans and specifications and other technical requirements.

           4. No later than fifteen (15) business days after submittal of a complete preliminary
subdivision application, the Director or Designee shall provide all written comments to the
applicant.

           5. Upon preliminary approval by the Development Review Committee, the Director or
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 12 of 57

designee shall schedule the application for review by the administrative land use authority.

            6. The Development Review Committee, Director, or designee, may not engage in
substantive review of subdivision improvement plans during the preliminary plan approval stage
or at any other time prior to the beginning of the review cycles for subdivision improvement plans
during final plat approval.

C. 18.08.080 – Preliminary Plat Approval or Disapproval.
A. Following a review of the preliminary plat, the administrative land use authority, as designated
in Section 18.08.010, shall act on the preliminary plat as submitted or modified. In addressing the
questions in Subsection B, the land use authority shall refer to the ordinances in effect at the time
that the applicant submitted a complete preliminary plat application.

           1. Unless the application is for a subdivision of five (5) or fewer lots with no public
dedication, the application shall be reviewed by the administrative land use authority at a public
meeting.

B. In reviewing the proposed subdivision, the administrative land use authority shall consider the
following:

          1. Are the plans, documents and other submission materials (including technical reports
where required) sufficiently detailed for proper consideration of the project?

           2. Do the submitted plans, documents and submission materials conform to applicable
municipal standards?

           3. Does the proposed development conform to municipal zoning ordinances and
subdivision design standards?

           4. Does any combination of natural or manmade conditions, encumbrances, easements,
setbacks, geometry, or the dimensions of the lot leave an adequate buildable area for a reasonably
sized main structure?

            5. Do any natural or manmade conditions exist on or in the vicinity of the site defined
in the preliminary plat that, without remediation, would render part or all of the property unsuitable
for development? Does the preliminary plat address these conditions?

           6. Does the preliminary plat provide for safe and convenient traffic circulation and road
access to adjacent properties under all weather conditions?

           7. Does the preliminary plat impose an undue financial burden upon the municipality?

            8. Are the location and arrangement of the lots, roads, easements and other elements of
the subdivision contemplated by the preliminary plat consistent with the municipality’s general
street system, transportation master plan and/or applicable elements of the general plan?
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 13 of 57


       9. Does the preliminary plat recognize and accommodate the existing natural conditions?

       10. Are the public facilities, including public utility systems serving the area defined in the
preliminary plat adequate to serve the proposed development?

            11. Will the project contemplated in the preliminary plat conform to the purposes and
intent of this Title as stated in Chapter 18.02?

C. The administrative land use authority may:

           1. Approve the preliminary plat;

          2. Approve the preliminary plat with reasonable conditions intended to ensure
compliance with the standards and objectives of the applicable zone and this Title;

             3. Continue review of the preliminary plat, directing that changes be made to the
preliminary plat so that it conforms with the standards and objectives of the applicable zone and
this Title; or

           4. Deny the preliminary plat because it does not meet the standards and objectives of
the applicable zone and this Title.

D. If the plat conforms with the standards and objectives of the applicable zone, all required
standards and specifications, and this Title, and has been approved by the culinary water authority
and the sanitary sewer authority, or the local health department where culinary water or sanitary
sewer services is not available, the administrative land use authority shall approve the preliminary
plat.

E. If the preliminary plat is not approved, the Director or designee shall notify the applicant in
writing and give reasons for the denial.

F. The Director or designee shall issue a preliminary plat approval letter with the conditions of
approval and a copy of the approved preliminary plat. The receipt of said letter shall be
authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of additional specifications for the
minimum improvements required in Chapter 18.14 of this Title and with the preparation of the
final plat.

18.08.090 Submittal Of The Final Plat, Engineering Drawings And Documents To The
Development Review Committee For Final Plat Approval
A. Purpose. The purpose of the final plat of a subdivision is to present an accurate depiction of the
layout of the subdivision so that it can be properly recorded and then used as a permanent reference
for the sale of the property included within the subdivision. The purpose of the final plat review is
to ensure that the plat and the construction plans for the required improvements, including those
comprising the Subdivision Improvement Plans, as defined in Utah Code Section 10-9a-604.2,
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 14 of 57

meet the applicable standards and specifications.

B. Application.

           1. The applicant shall submit a final plat application to Planning and Development
Services, which shall include:

                a. Submission of an application form, as designed by the Director or designee to
clearly indicate the type of application, property address, applicant information, and other pertinent
information;

               b. Submission of a final plat and other drawings and documentation conforming to
the requirements of Section 18.10.040, technical reports in accordance with Section 18.10.050,
engineered construction plans for the improvements required in Chapter 18.14, and supplementary
materials as may be required by this Title;

                c. Authorization for application submittal from the property owner or authorized
agent; and

              d. All items required on the Final Subdivision Application Checklist published on
White City’s official website.

             2. Completeness Review.

             a. The final plat application shall be carefully reviewed by Planning and
Development Services to determine whether or not it is complete.

               b. If it is concluded that the final plat application is not complete, the Director or
designee shall notify the applicant in writing within twenty (20) business days:

                     i. That the application is incomplete; and

                     ii. Which specific components of the application are deemed insufficient.

               c. After notice is given, an application deemed incomplete automatically terminates
after sixty (60) days if the necessary components to complete the application have not been
submitted.

               d. At any time during or before the completeness review process outlined in this
subsection, a pre-application meeting may be requested by the applicant or Director or designee to
discuss the application, plans, and anticipated review process. In order to facilitate efficiency of
the review process, the Director or designee may invite representatives from other reviewing
agencies as well as the applicant’s design professionals to the meeting.

             3. Complete Application.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 15 of 57


                a. When the final plat application is determined to include all the of the required
documentation, plans, plats, reports and other required submittals, the Director or designee shall
release the fees for the applicant to pay.

               b. When the applicant has paid the required fees, the application submittal is
complete, and the application is deemed complete and is accepted by the Director or designee, the
date of acceptance shall be noted for the record.

C. Technical Review of the Final Plat and Construction Documents. The Director or designee shall
review or cause to be reviewed the complete final plat application and construction documents
as follows:

           1. No later than twenty (20) business days after the day on which an applicant submits
a final subdivision plat application, the Development Review Committee shall review of plat
and/or construction plans, and preparation of review comments.

           2. The Director or designee shall review the application materials, plans, plats, and
technical documents for compliance with municipal land use ordinances, codes and adopted plans
and specifications and other technical requirements in effect at the time that the applicant submitted
a complete final plat application. As part of this review, the Director or designee may conduct one
or more on-site reviews, as provided by Utah Code Section 10-9a-303.

            3. The Director or designee shall refer the application materials, plans, plats, and
technical documents to the Development Review Committee and any other government agency
and/or affected entity which the Director deems necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the public and to ensure the project's compliance with all applicable design standards and
specifications, ordinances, codes and adopted plans and specifications and other technical
requirements.

           4. No later than twenty (20) business days after submittal of a complete final
subdivision plat application, or revised plats, plans, or reports addressing the previous
Development Review Committee comments, the Director or Designee shall provide all written
comments to the applicant.

           5. Upon a determination that the application is consistent with applicable standards and
conditions, the Development Review Committee shall provide a written letter of approval to the
applicant.

            6. If an applicant is proposing material changes to the preliminary plat, the Director or
designee may, but need not, restart the review cycle with respect to those portions affected by the
material changes and direct the administrative land use authority to consider preliminary approval
of the portions affected by the material change. Material changes include an increase in the number
of proposed lots, changes to the location and/or configuration of streets including stub streets,
and/or other changes deemed material by the Development Review Committee.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 16 of 57


            7. If an applicant contests any requirements imposed by the Development Review
Committee as part of the final plat approval, the applicant may appeal the conditions of approval
to the land use hearing officer in accordance with Section 19.20.030.

           8. The following actions shall be taken within one (1) year of final plat approval, or the
applicant must reapply for preliminary plat approval:

                a. The subdivision plat shall be recorded in the Office of the Salt Lake County
Recorder; or

               b. A site restoration/durability bond shall be posted with Planning and Development
Services in accordance with Section 18.16.050, and a preconstruction meeting shall have been
held with the Development Review Committee.

           9. The Director may grant a one (1) year extension provided the final plans have been
updated to address any changes to the applicable ordinances and standards that may have been
updated or changed since the time of the final plat approval.

18.08.100 Combined Applications
An applicant may submit an application for approval of a preliminary plat and a final plat
simultaneously if the subdivision does not include multiple phases. Such application shall be on a
form provided by the Planning and Development Services Division. The combination application
shall contain both a preliminary plat and a final plat that meet all requirements of this Title and all
municipal, state, and federal regulations prior to approval by the land use authority. All other
agency reviews shall also be conducted and approved in accordance with this Title.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, review of the final subdivision application and plat may not begin
until the preliminary subdivision application has been approved by the administrative land use
authority. Under no circumstances may the administrative land use authority grant final approval.

18.08.110 Recording The Final Plat
A. Prior to recording the final plat, the applicant shall:

        1. Pay any remaining fees; and

         2. Provide the Planning and Development Services Division with a tax clearance indicating
that all taxes, interest, and penalties owing on the land have been paid; and

          3. Complete all required improvements and post a durability bond in accordance with
Chapter 18.16. The required improvements shall all be inspected, approved and accepted by the
Municipal Engineering Division; or

        4. Post a performance guarantee and a durability bond in accordance with Chapter 18.16
and in an amount determined by the Municipal Engineering Division.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 17 of 57

B. The final plat shall include all required approval signatures (Planning Commission
representative, Director, health department, district attorney, Mayor or their designees).

C. The applicant shall make an appointment with Planning and Development Services staff to
record the final plat in the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.

18.08.120 As Built Drawings
Prior to the final acceptance of the required improvements, the applicant shall provide the
Engineering Department a complete and accurate set of as-built drawings in an electronic format
acceptable to the Engineer Department.

18.08.140 Definitions
All terms pertaining to the development or division of land as defined in Chapter 19.04 of the
municipal zoning ordinance shall also be applicable to this Title.

CHAPTER 18.10 DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS
18.10.010 Document Submittal Requirements
18.10.020 Concept Plan Specifications
18.10.030 Preliminary Plat Required Information
18.10.040 Final Plat Required Information
18.10.050 Technical Reports Required
18.10.060 Final Approval-GIS Data Required

18.10.010 Document Submittal Requirements
All subdivision applications shall include, at a minimum, the documents identified in the
preliminary and final subdivision application checklists posted on the White City official
website.

18.10.020 Concept Plan Specifications
A. At a minimum, and when required, the following information and materials should be provided
as a part of the concept plan application package:

           1. An accurate and up-to-date preliminary survey map of the property proposed for
subdivision;

             2. A vicinity map at a scale of 1:600 showing the property in relation to the general
area of the jurisdictional limits in which it is located;

           3. A schematic plat drawn clearly and accurately by a design professional at a scale
appropriate for the nature of the project, to include:

                a. Scale, north arrow, and date of preparation;

                b. Approximate topography;
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 18 of 57

                c. All primary and secondary conservation areas;

                d. Existing man-made features on the property;

                 e. Proposed streets, lots, public areas, open spaces, greenbelts, buffers, amenity
areas, and other significant proposed improvements;

                f. Zoning setbacks, and the approximate area of each lot;

                g. Any other features that will be important in the design and development of the
project; and

                h. Any off-site improvements that may be needed to properly develop the property.

           4. A Stormwater Management Concept Plan;

            5. Typical floor plans and elevations of the dwelling units and other major structures
that are planned for the proposed subdivision; and

           6. A concept plan review fee.

18.10.030 Preliminary Plat Required Information
A. The preliminary plat shall contain the information specified in this Section and comply with the
following requirements:

             1. Description and Delineation. In a title block located in the lower right-hand corner
of the plat, the following shall appear:

              a. The proposed name of the subdivision, which name must be approved by
Planning and Development Services;

                b. The location of the subdivision, including:

                     i. Address;

                     ii. Section, township and range, base and meridian;

                     iii. When applicable, the name and phase of the recorded subdivision being
amended; and

                     iv. Municipality and County.

                c. The names and addresses of the owner, the subdivider, if different than the
owner, and of the designer of the subdivision; and
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 19 of 57

                d. The date of preparation, scale (no less than one inch to equal one hundred feet)
and the north point.

B. Existing Conditions. The plat shall show:

         1. The location and elevation of project benchmark(s) referenced to published Salt Lake
County Surveyor datum and its spatial relationship to existing Public Land Survey System
monuments or their accessories;

            2. The boundary lines of the proposed subdivision indicated by a solid heavy line and
the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby;

             3. All property under the control of the subdivider, even if only a portion is being
subdivided. Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider's tract, a sketch of the
prospective street system of the unplatted portion of the subdivider's land shall be submitted, and
the street system of the portion submitted shall be considered in the light of existing street system,
general street plans, other applicable studies and adopted transportation plans.

            4. The location, width, names and jurisdiction of all existing streets within two hundred
feet (200') of the subdivision and of all prior platted streets or other public ways, railroad and
utility rights-of-way, parks and other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures,
houses or permanent easements and section, and municipal and service district boundaries, within
and adjacent to the tract;

            5. The location of all wells, proposed, active and abandoned, and of all reservoirs within
the tract and to a distance of at least one hundred feet (100') beyond the tract boundaries;

            6. Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities within the tract
and to a distance of at least one hundred feet (100') beyond the tract boundaries, indicating pipe
sizes, grades, manholes, elevations and exact locations;

          7. Existing and proposed realignment of ditches, canals, natural drainage channels, and
open waterways;

          8. Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of subdivided and unsubdivided land, showing
ownership and parcel identification number;

          9. Contour at vertical intervals of not more than two feet (2’). Highwater levels of all
watercourses, if any, shall be indicated in the same datum for contour elevations;

           10. All existing fire hydrants within five hundred feet (500’) of the proposed
subdivision, including any additional hydrants proposed to be located within the subdivision;
and

           11. Accurate locations of all natural features such as lakes, ponds, streams, creeks, State
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 20 of 57

Waters, wetlands, floodplain boundaries, riparian buffers, Wildlife and Priority Habitats (as
identified by the Department of Natural Resources), and other significant features, and notations
designating any federal, state, or local regulatory agency permits or approvals that are or may be
required relative to development of or around such features.

C. Proposed Subdivision Plans. The subdivision plans shall include:

           1. The layout of streets, showing location, widths and other dimensions of (designated
by actual or proposed names and numbers) proposed streets, crosswalks, alleys and easements;

           2. The layout, numbers, and typical dimensions of lots;

            3. Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for public use or set
aside for use of property owners in the subdivision;

           4. Building setback lines, including showing dimensions where required by the land
use authority;

            5. Typical street cross sections. The required street cross sections may be submitted as
a separate sheet or as part of the construction plans. Grade sheets may be required by the land use
authority or other reviewing agency; and

           6. A tentative plan or method by which the subdivider proposes to handle stormwater
drainage for the subdivision.

D. Phasing.

           1. Where a subdivider proposes to submit a final plat containing less territory than
shown on the preliminary plat, indicating a phased development plan, the preliminary plat shall
identify each of the proposed phases. Any such final plat phasing scheme shall occur at logical
“break points” in the project and provide access and utility services which will be adequate in the
event that subsequent phases do not occur. The phasing scheme shall also incorporate the
provisions of Chapter 18.12 of this Title.

           2. A phase may not include two or more non-contiguous areas on the same plat.

            3. No phasing scheme may have the effect of leaving a residual lot, non-conforming
parcel or previously divided land for which the required subdivision improvements have not been
previously constructed. For purposes of this Title, a “residual lot”shall be defined as a zoning lot,
created by the proposed subdivision, but which is not shown as a lot on the final plat of the
subdivision project or as future development. A future development parcel must be developable
into multiple lots meeting the area standards for the applicable zone.

            4. If any requirement of this Title and the applicable standards is proposed to be
satisfied by relation to or incorporation of components of another phase or related development,
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 21 of 57

the applicant shall enter into a development agreement with White City governing the applicable
phases or related developments or modify the application to satisfy all requirements independently.

E. Where required, evidence of any agreements with adjacent property owners relative to the
subdivision development shall be presented to Planning and Development Services in writing prior
to its approval of the plat. These agreements shall include those relative to drainage, easements,
protection strips and improvement bonds.

18.10.040 Final Plat Required Information
The final plat shall be prepared by a professional land surveyor licensed in Utah on a sheet of
approved reproducible Mylar and made with approved waterproof black ink. The plat shall be
oriented so that the top of the sheet is either north or east, whichever accommodates the drawing
best. All text shall be a minimum of one-tenth inch in size. The plat shall contain all information
required on the preliminary plat with the exception of contours and construction information,
utilities (except existing and proposed fire hydrants), structures and fences (unless called
monuments).

A. Description and Delineation. The final plat shall show:

           1. The approved name of the subdivision;

           2. North arrow and graphic scale. The minimum scale is 1” =100’;

           3. A legend defining all lines and symbols used on the plat;

           4. Lot addresses, and approved street names and numbers;

           5. The plat drawing shall agree with the boundary description;

           6. Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and curves used to
describe boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved for public use and other
important features. Boundaries, lots and streets shown as solid lines, with outside subdivision
boundary lines indicated as a heavier, more substantial line than lot, street and easement lines.
Easements shown as dashed lines;

           7. The lengths of lot lines and boundary lines shown as decimals of a foot with a
precision of 0.00’; Bearings and angles will be shown as Deg/Min/Sec with a precision of
0°00’00”. Additional precision may be necessary to meet closure requirements;

           8. Bearings and distance to provide a mathematical closure of 0.01’ on exterior
subdivision boundary and 0.02’ or less, on all lots and centerline of streets;

            9. Basis of bearing between two or more public land survey monuments or between
identified monuments in a recorded subdivision or street dedication plat;
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 22 of 57

           10. Survey ties to public land survey monuments, and where applicable, to identified
monuments in a recorded subdivision or street dedication plat, showing measured and record, if
different;

           11. The accurate location of all survey monuments and fire hydrants to be installed
shown by the appropriate symbol. All United States, state, county or other official benchmarks,
survey monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property, shall be preserved in
precise position and in compliance with Utah Code Section 17-23-14 and Salt Lake County
Ordinance, Chapter 14.17;

           12. The clearly labeled point of beginning;

          13. The sum of the lot line distances along the exterior of the plat shall equal the
boundary distance;

           14. Existing and proposed streets within two-hundred feet (200’) of the proposed
subdivision boundary. Dimension street width and identified street ownership;

            15. Recording information of adjoining subdivisions. Ownership with parcel
identification numbers of adjoining lots and parcels;

            16. The dimensioned relationship between existing and proposed utility easements with
proposed lot lines. Include recording reference(s) of existing easements and provide a utility
approval line for proposed easements;

           17. All curve data, including radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent
bearings and length of all arcs, identified at correct location or in a curve table;

            18. Centerline control on existing streets, matching the County’s record data. New
street monuments will be installed per the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s monument permitting
process as specified in Salt Lake County Ordinance, Chapter 14-17;

            19. The dedication to the municipality of all streets and highways included in the
proposed subdivision. Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property controlled by a
public agent or utility company, approval for the location, improvement and maintenance of such
streets shall be obtained from the public agency or utility company and entered on the final plat in
a form approved by the municipal attorney;

            20. Subdivision monuments shall be installed prior to the improvement bond release
by the subdivider's engineer or land surveyor at such points designated on the final plat as approved
by Planning and Development Services. Standard precast monuments, rings and lids shall be
installed through the Salt Lake County Surveyor monument permitting process (SLCo Ord
Chapter 14.17);

           21. Physical markers shall be placed at each outside boundary corner, in accordance
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 23 of 57

with state statutes and industry standards; and verified to be in their correct location(s) according
to the plat;

           22. Physical markers shall be placed at each lot corner in accordance with state statutes
and industry standards; and

           23. Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be dedicated or reserved
for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and of any area to be reserved by deed or
covenant for common uses of all property owners.

B. Boundary Description. The boundary description shall include:

         1. A caption with reference to current vesting deed(s), location by Quarter Section,
Township & Range, Base & Meridian, and if applicable, existing lot(s) and subdivision(s);

           2. A survey tie to an existing Public Land Survey monument, or a recognized street or
subdivision monument;          3. All necessary bearings, distances and curve data to complete the
description and provide a mathematical closure of 0.01’ (one hundredth) of a foot or less;

           4. Narrative (bound) calls to and along adjoining subdivisions, parcels, streets, and
rights of way as necessary to define the intent of the description;

            5. Recording reference to any additional easements required for property access where
applicable; and

           6. Total development area in square feet (0.00) and acres (0.000).

C. Standard Forms for the Following. The municipality may adopt a template establishing the
expected format of the final plat, which shall at a minimum require:

           1. A Professional Land Surveyor’s certificate of survey;

           2. The owner's certificate of dedication;

           3. A notary public's acknowledgement;

           4. The land use authority's certificate of approval;

           5. The health department's certificate of approval;

           6. Planning and Development Service’s certificate of approval;

           7. The municipal attorney's certificate of approval;

           8. The mayor’s certificate of approval, witnessed by the municipal recorder/clerk;
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 24 of 57


           9. The County Surveyor’s record of survey acknowledgment block; and

           10. A one and one-half by five-inch (1.5” x 5”) space in the lower right-hand corner of
the drawing for the Salt Lake County Recorder's use.

D. The final plat may require written acknowledgment of any legal documents recorded at the Salt
Lake County Recorder’s Office completed as part of the approval process for the subdivision. The
acknowledgment shall include the recorded number of the document after it has been recorded at
the Salt Lake County Recorder's Office.

18.10.050 Technical Reports Required
A. The following technical reports are required for all subdivisions:

            1. Soils Report. The report shall include, but is not necessarily limited to, information
with respect to slope analysis, general soils classification, suitability for development, erosion
potential, any recommendations for proposed methods of mitigating any constraints determined to
be present as part of the development plan, and any adverse impact on the natural environment.

           2. Stormwater, Grading and Drainage Plan: The plan shall include, but is not
necessarily limited to, information on groundwater levels, identification and mapping of drainage
channels and systems, floodplains, existing details and contours where modification of terrain is
proposed, the direction of proposed drainage flow, proposed plans and the location of all surface
and subsurface drainage devices to be constructed as part of the proposed development, erosion
control measures during the course of construction, identification of any grading and drainage
problems such as the alteration of natural drainage patterns and any other problems of the proposed
development, and a plan to mitigate or eliminate such problems and any adverse impact on the
natural environment.

B. The following technical reports are required for subdivision applications in the FCOZ, areas
designated as Special Flood Hazard Areas on a FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and all
other property in designated fault or debris flow areas:

            1. Geotechnical and Geology Report (Global And Site Specific): The report shall
include, but is not necessarily limited to, identification and mapping of the location of major
geographic and geologic features such as fault traces, surface ruptures, zones of deformation,
potential slide and other high hazard areas such as mine shafts and avalanche paths, conclusions
and recommendations regarding the effect of geologic conditions on the proposed development,
recommendations covering the adequacy of sites proposed for development, and any potential
adverse impact on the natural environment. This report shall be completed by a geotechnical
engineer or an engineering geologist. The geotechnical report shall contain a certification in
accordance with section 18.30.090 of this code.

                a. The geotechnical investigation shall include soil borings extended to a depth
sufficient to define the soil stratigraphy, water table and other features within the zone of
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 25 of 57

significant stress of the proposed structural footings of the proposed development. If the
development needs evaluation of slope stability then the soil borings will extend deep enough to
define all soil layers in the zone of possible slippage.

                  b. If published geologic maps show possible faults in the area or a surface geologic
examination reveals signs of faulting, then the geotechnical investigation will be supplemented by
trenching in addition to the soil borings. The trenches will be so located as to intercept the apparent
fault at a perpendicular angle to the trend of the fault. The trenching will extend a minimum of
twenty feet (20') each side of the located fault. Developments of two (2) acres or more will require
at least two (2) trenches to define the fault. One trench will be approximately where the fault enters
the property and the other where it leaves the property. The trenches will be excavated to a depth
that will define the fault and allow physical observation and measurement to be taken.

            2. Natural Conditions And Vegetation Analysis And Preservation Plan: This report and
plan shall include a survey of existing trees, large shrubs and ground covers, a plan for the proposed
revegetation of the site, detailing existing vegetation to be preserved, new vegetation to be planted
and any modifications to existing vegetation, and the identification of any vegetation problems
and recommendations as how to mitigate or eliminate such problems and avoid potential adverse
impact on the natural environment.

            3. Fire Protection Report: The report shall include, but not be limited to, identification
of potential fire hazards, mitigation measures, access for fire protection equipment and proposed
fire flow capability.

C. The scope and content of these required technical reports and plans shall be in accordance with
adopted standards. The Municipal Engineering Division may waive the necessity for submitting
one or more of the technical reports or any elements of a report where, in its opinion, conditions
associated with the proposed development do not require consideration of the subject matter
covered. Also, where the lot is contained within an approved subdivision and the technical reports
previously submitted as part of the subdivision approval process are sufficient in scope and detail
to adequately address the issues required under this Chapter, this requirement may be waived.

18.10.060 Final Approval-GIS Data Required
A. Prior to the final approval and the issuance of any permit associated with a subdivision or
development plan, or in the case of a single lot development or a single building permit, the owner
or developer shall provide to Planning and Development Services the GIS data corresponding to
the approved plans for all improvements required by Chapter 18.14. Any changes during
construction will require additional GIS data to be submitted with the final approved as-built
drawings. All GIS data shall be submitted in the following format:

             1. All GIS data shall be submitted in conformance with County Policy 1013,
“Standards for Geographic Information System” and the “Salt Lake County Public Works
Engineering GIS Standards,” as approved by the Salt Lake County GIS Steering Committee and
on file with Salt Lake County Engineering. The municipality reserves the right to reject any GIS
data that is provided and is not in compliance with the above standards.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 26 of 57


            2. This shall be done at the developer or owner's expense. If a developer or owner does
not provide the required GIS data, the municipality may complete the work on the developer or
owner's behalf and the developer or owner shall pay to the municipality the cost of completing the
work at the hourly rate approved by the White City Council for such work. If the developer or
owner fails to pay for such work, the municipality may pursue legal action to recover these costs.

            3. Developers with a cost as estimated by the Municipal Engineering Division of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) or less may, prior to construction, petition Planning and Development
Services for an exemption from the GIS requirements of this Chapter. The decision of the Director
or designee shall be final.

B. GIS data will be required for the following improvements:

            1. Roadway system: Regulatory signs, street signs, centerlines, curb and gutter,
sidewalks, crosswalks, ADA ramps, striping, road width, and monuments; streetlights and signals
(including conduit and electrical boxes for streetlights and signals).

            2. Storm drain system: Catch basins, manholes, fire hydrants, cleanout boxes, drainage
areas, detention basin inlets and outlets, culverts, detention basin area, stormwater quality BMPs,
and pipes.

CHAPTER 18.12 DESIGN STANDARDS
18.12.010 Departmental Standards
18.12.020 Conformance With Design Standards
18.12.030 Street And Roads, General Criteria
18.12.040 Blocks
18.12.050 Lots
18.12.060 Remnant Parcels And Nuisance Strips
18.12.070 Flag Lots

18.12.010 Departmental Standards
A. Standards for design, construction specifications, and inspection of street improvements, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, storm drainage and flood control facilities shall be prepared by the Municipal
Engineering and Flood Control divisions; standards for water distribution and sewage disposal
facilities shall be prepared by the health department, and similar standards for fire hydrants shall
be prepared by the fire department. All subdividers shall comply with the standards established by
such departments and agencies of White City, provided that such standards shall be approved by
the legislative body.

B. Subject to the provisions of Utah Code Section 10-9a-508, no adopted design or construction
standards shall have the effect of requiring the installation of pavement on a residential roadway
at a width in excess of thirty-two feet (32’).

18.12.020 Conformance With Design Standards
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 27 of 57

The design of the preliminary and final plats of the subdivision in relation to streets, blocks, lots,
open spaces and other design factors shall conform with the standards contained herein.

18.12.030 Street And Roads, General Criteria
A. Width. The width of the hard surfacing and the location and type of other required street
improvements shall be as set forth on the applicable street cross section.

B. Relationship To Adjacent Streets. The proposed street system shall properly align and be
compatible with adjacent streets. Offset intersection shall be avoided whenever possible, and any
intersecting street with an offset of more than fifteen feet (15') shall be prohibited. The distance
between intersections may not be less than one hundred fifty feet (150') for local streets. The
provision may not apply to existing streets unless the development includes the realignment of
existing streets.

C. Street Names. New street names may not duplicate those already existing within Salt Lake
County. A street obviously a continuation of another already in existence should bear the same
name. Before the street is named, the proposed name must be submitted to and approved by
Planning and Development Services.

D. Access To Adjacent Properties. In order to facilitate the development of an adequate and
convenient circulation system within the municipality and to provide access for the logical
development of adjacent vacant properties, the municipality may, as a condition of approval,
require the subdivision plan to include one or more temporary dead end streets (stub streets) which
extend to the boundary of the subdivision. All such stub streets shall be fully developed to the
boundary of the subdivision. Any plan for the subsequent development of the adjacent property
shall provide for the continuation of any such stub street.

E. Temporary Dead End (Stub Streets). Where a final plat includes a dead end stub street which is
intended to be continued into adjacent property in the future and which serves as the primary access
for one or more adjacent lots, said final plat shall make provision for temporarily accommodating
vehicular movement and the extension of utility services by designating temporary cul-de-sacs,
turnaround areas, travel easements connecting the end of the stub street with other streets in the
vicinity or such other temporary measure as may be approved by the planning commission. Such
temporary facilities required pursuant to this provision shall remain until such time as the street
has been extended into the adjacent property and the improvements accepted by the municipality.

F. Cul-De-Sacs. Cul-de-sacs shall be discouraged.

            1. Cul-de-sacs may be appropriate in cases where the possibility of future adjacent
development does not exist due to topography or existing development, or where an additional
through street would be unnecessary where the road cannot be extended through the property to
another street elsewhere, where development has occurred on at least three (3) side of the
surrounding property, or where other special circumstances exist, as determined appropriate by the
land use authority after receiving a recommendation for the same from the Municipal Engineer in
accordance with best practices. When permitted, permanent cul-de-sacs shall be designed in
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 28 of 57

accordance with adopted standard drawings, each cul-de-sac stem shall meet the standard street
requirement including right-of-way, pavement width, gutter, curb, and sidewalk within residential
subdivisions. The maximum length of a cul-de-sac street shall be five hundred feet (500') from the
center of the cul- de-sac to the centerline of the intersecting street.

            2. The land use authority may require a sidewalk connection through a cul-de-sac to
allow for pedestrian connectivity to existing or future adjacent development and/or public streets.

G. Vehicle Access. Subdivision projects of twenty (20) lots or more shall provide at least two (2)
points of vehicular access.

18.12.040 Blocks
A. Length. Blocks may not exceed one thousand three hundred and twenty (1320') feet in length.

B. Width. Blocks shall be wide enough to adequately accommodate two tiers of lots except as
provided for herein.

C. Walkways. A mid-block walkway is required if a block is longer than eight hundred (800') feet.
Such dedicated walkways through the block may be required where access is necessary to a point
designated by the Planning Commission. Such dedicated walkways shall be a minimum of six feet
(6’) in width, but may be required to be wider where determined necessary by the land use
authority. The subdivider shall surface the full width of the walkway with a concrete surface, install
a chain-link fence or its equal four feet (4’) high on each side and the full length of each walkway
and provide, in accordance with the standards, rules and regulations, barriers at each walkway
entrance to prevent the use of the walkway, by any motor vehicle or by any other nonmotorized
vehicle wider than four feet (4’).

D. Commercial and Industrial Block Design. Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall
be designed specifically for such purposes with adequate space set aside for off-street parking and
delivery facilities.

18.12.050 Lots
A. Design. The lot arrangement and design shall be such that lots will provide satisfactory and
desirable sites for buildings and be properly designed according to topography, the character of
surrounding development, and to existing requirements. Lots may not contain peculiarly shaped
elongations solely to provide necessary square footage which would be unusable for normal
purposes.

B. Zoning Conformity. All lots shown on the preliminary and final plats shall conform to the
minimum requirements of the zone in which the subdivision is located, and to the minimum
requirements of the health department for water supply and sewage disposal. Lots created as part
of an approved planned unit development, or subject to a development agreement are subject to
the standards set forth in that approval or document.

C. Frontage.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 29 of 57


               1. Each lot in a subdivision shall abut upon and have access to a street which is:

                  a. Dedicated to the municipality by the subdivision plat;

                  b. An existing publicly dedicated street;

              c. An existing public street which has become public by right of use and which is
more than twenty-six (26’) feet wide;

                  d. An existing private street that has been approved by the municipality; or

              e. Have an approved access via private right of way to a public street shown on the
plan and approved under the criteria outlined in Subsection 2 of this Section.

           2. The municipality may approve a request for a private street that complies with the
following criteria:

            a. The street must be part of a planned unit development (PUD) or planned
community where the municipality and the developer have entered into a development agreement;

                 b. Private streets will only be allowed for streets that have no public interest for
traffic circulation and connectivity;

                c. The final design and cross section of any private street shall be determined by
the Council based on recommendations from the Planning Commission. Unless otherwise
authorized by the Council, private streets shall conform to adopted street cross sections and shall
in no case be less than twenty feet (20’) in width;

                  d. The maximum length of a dead-end private street may not exceed five hundred
feet (500’);

                  e. A note on the plat shall be included indicating that municipality has no
responsibility to improve or maintain the private streets contained within, or private streets
providing access to, the property described in the plat, nor does the municipality have
responsibility for any of the infrastructure associated with the roadway such as sidewalks, drainage
facilities, streetlights, curbs, and/or landscaping; and

               f. The applicant shall provide a maintenance plan outlining how the private streets
will be maintained.

D. Corner Lots. Corner lots shall include the minimum lot width along each of the fronting streets,
as measured at the front setback line. A corner lot shall have an additional ten feet (10') of width
along one of the frontages to accommodate the additional setback requirements.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 30 of 57

E. Double Fronting Lots.

            1. Single-family or duplex double frontage lots shall be prohibited, except where they
may be essential to provide separation of single-family or duplex residential development from
fronting on collector or arterial streets, or to overcome a specific disadvantage or hardship imposed
by topography or other factors. Such double frontage lots allowed within the municipality shall be
constructed to the adopted engineering design standards.

            2. Where lots have double frontage, are not screened, and/or are provided access
directly onto an arterial street, building setback lines shall be established for each street side.

            3. Lots in single-family or duplex residential subdivisions and lots measuring less than
one hundred feet (100’) wide and located within multifamily residential subdivisions may abut a
street on both the front and rear boundaries, but only under the following conditions:

               a. One lot boundary must abut a collector street, arterial street or freeway;

                b. No access to the abutting arterial street or freeway. The administrative land use
authority may require a reservation, easement or other condition of approval to ensure that no right
of access is given; and

               c. The administrative land use authority may require that a parkway at the rear of a
double frontage lot be landscaped, or other aesthetic treatment be provided by the subdivider,
subject to the approval of the Planning Commission to provide a visual and physical separation
between the development and the street.

F. Angle of Lot Lines. Side lot lines or lots shall be approximately at right angles, or radial to the
street line, except where topographic or other conditions make it advisable to have side lot lines at
sharper angles.

G. Multiple Ownership of Lots. Where the land covered by a subdivision includes two (2) or more
parcels in separate ownership and the lot arrangement is such that a property ownership line divides
one or more lots, the subdivision shall be considered as a joint project and the final plat shall be
signed by all affected property owners.

18.12.060 Remnant Parcels And Nuisance Strips
A. No subdivision or platting of a lot may create a nuisance strip, residual lot, or remnant parcel
of property less than the minimum lot area or width for the zone in which it is located.

B. If a remnant parcel is proposed, a phasing plan shall be submitted demonstrating how the
remnant parcel can be developed in the future.

C. Remnant land not included in the proposed subdivision or platting of a lot must be deeded to
adjacent property, with the deed or other appropriate instrument being recorded at the same time
as the subdivision or recording of a plat. The resulting deeds may not result in additional parcels
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 31 of 57

being created that are not within the subdivision boundary.

D. No lot may contain an elongated protuberance, or any other feature intended to deny frontage
to another parcel.

18.12.070 Flag Lots
A. In order to subdivide an existing lot or parcel so as to create two or more separate lots or parcels
(the base lot(s) adjacent to the street and a flag lot(s) to their rear), sufficient land area must be
available to maintain:

           1. For the base lot(s), compliance with the required area and width requirements of the
zone in which the properties are situated, and

            2. For flag lot(s) less than one-half acre in size:

                a. One- and one-half times the area requirements for the zone in which the
properties are situated if ownership of the land providing access to the flag lot(s) is retained by or
conveyed to the owner of those lots, or

                b. One- and one-half times the area requirements for the zone in which the
properties are situated minus the land area included in the access easement across the base lot(s).

            3. For flag lot(s) in zones that require a minimum lot area of one-half acre in size or
larger:

                a. Compliance with the required area and width requirements of the zone in which
the properties are situated, exclusive of the land area encumbered for access purposes to the flag
lot(s), whether by ownership or perpetual easement.

B. Access to a flag lot or lots shall be provided in the following manner:

             1. Ownership of the land area connecting the flag lot(s) to the street by the person(s)
or entities that own the balance of the land area included in the flag lot(s), or

            2. Retention of ownership of the land area connecting the flag lot(s) to the street by the
owner of the base lot(s) fronting on the street, but only if conveyance of that land area would render
the base lot(s) substandard with regards to lot width or lot area requirements applicable to the zone
in which the properties are situated. If so retained, access to the flag lot(s) shall be provided through
conveyance and recordation of a perpetual access easement for each lot, together with cross
maintenance and liability agreements addressing the rights and responsibilities of the owners of
the base lot(s) and the flag lot(s).

          3. In a residential or agricultural zone, no more than one flag lot may use a single access
and no more than one access can be created across a base lot.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 32 of 57

C. Access to a flag lot(s), whether by ownership of the land area across which such access is
provided or through recordation of a perpetual access easement across the base lot(s), must be of
uniform width from the flag lot to the intersection with the street right-of-way or easement upon
which the base lot fronts in accordance with the following:

            1. On properties where the length of the access connection from the flag lot(s) to the
public street right-of-way or easement is less than one hundred and thirty feet, the width of that
connection must be no less than twenty (20') feet unless a lesser width for improvements to the
travel way is authorized for access purposes by the Municipal Engineer and the fire authority.

            2. On properties where the length of the access connection from the flag lot(s) to the
public street right-of-way or easement is more than one hundred and thirty feet, the width of that
connection must be no less than twenty-five (25') feet unless a lesser width for improvements to
the travel way is authorized for access purposes by the Municipal Engineer and the fire authority.

           3. A landscaping, irrigation, and fencing plan shall be submitted to create a buffer
between the driveway and adjoining properties to mitigate the negative impacts of the access.

            4. In residential and agricultural zones, flag lots are intended to be used only for infill
development. No subdivision, concept plan, preliminary plat, or final plat with 3 or more lots may
include a flag lot or lots.

CHAPTER 18.14 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
18.14.010 Certification Of Improvements
18.14.020 Storm Sewers
18.14.030 Public Sanitary Sewer
18.14.040 Storm Drainage
18.14.050 Street Improvements
18.14.060 Arrangement Of Streets
18.14.070 Utility And Facility Systems To Be Underground
18.14.080 Streetlighting
18.14.090 Pavement Requirements
18.14.100 Curbs And Gutters
18.14.110 Street Name Signs
18.14.120 Trails
18.14.130 Fire Hydrants
18.14.140 Stormwater Inlets And Catch Basins
18.14.150 Open Ditches And Canals-Permitted When
18.14.160 Open Ditches And Canals-Fencing Requirements
18.14.170 Fencing Requirements
18.14.180 Construction Of Improvements
18.14.190 Responsibility For Damages

18.14.010 Certification Of Improvements
No final plat of a subdivision of land may be recorded without receiving a statement signed by
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 33 of 57

Planning and Development Services certifying that the improvements described in the subdivider's
plans and specifications have been completed, or that an adequate performance bond has been
submitted for the required improvements as allowed under Chapter 18.16. The certification
document is to certify that the required improvements meet the minimum requirements of all
ordinances of the municipality, that they comply with the standards and requirements of the Health
Department, Planning and Development Services, the Planning Commission and the Fire
Authority serving the area.

18.14.020 Storm Sewers
Storm sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision to carry off water from all
inlets and catch basins and shall be connected to an adequate outfall. A stormwater drainage system
subject to the approval of Planning and Development Services shall be provided and shall be
separate and independent of the sanitary sewer system. The final plans for the drainage system
shall be prepared by a licensed engineer not in the employ of the County, the MSD or the
Municipality.

18.14.030 Public Sanitary Sewer
A. Where public sewer service is available to the subdivision, a public sanitary sewer system,
including main lines and laterals from the main to each lot property line, shall be constructed
throughout the entire subdivision in accordance with plans and technical standards required by the
entity providing public sewer service to the subdivision and shall be connected to the public sewer
system.

B. In cases where public sewer service is not presently available to the subdivision, alternate waste
disposal systems may only be permitted and used provided that the subdivider or developer installs
and constructs concurrently therewith sanitary sewer laterals and mains within the subdivision
streets to a point on the subdivision boundary where future connection with the public sewer
system shall be made. Sewer laterals shall be laid from each lot to the main line in each street, and
a connection shall be available on each lot to connect from the alternate waste disposal systems to
the sewer system when public sewer becomes available and operational. Such sanitary sewer
system shall be capped until ready for use and shall be constructed throughout the entire
subdivision in accordance with plans and technical standards required by the entity that will
provide public sewer service to the subdivision in the future.

C. The Council may exempt the subdivider from the requirements of this Section upon a finding
that public sewer service is unlikely to be provided to the subdivision in the future due to physical
inaccessibility of the terrain. Prior to making a decision concerning a requested exemption, the
Council shall request a written recommendation from the Planning Commission, the Municipal
Engineer, and from the entity most likely to provide sewer service to the area in which the
subdivision is located.

D. Subsection C notwithstanding, it is expressly provided that it shall be unlawful for the owner
or other person having charge of or occupying any property upon which a building has been or is
being constructed for residential, commercial or industrial use, any part of which building is within
three hundred feet (300') of any street, alley, or way in which a public sewer is then in existence
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 34 of 57

and used in the municipality, to construct or permit to be constructed or to use or permit to be used
any privy vault, septic tank or cesspool connected with such building. Each such owner or other
person shall within ninety (90) days after having been given notice by the municipality that an
accepted public sewer is ready to receive connections, therewith cause such building to be
connected with the sewer (except that if such building does not, at the time such notice is given,
have therein any toilet or toilets, the owner or person having charge thereof or occupying any such
building shall have a period of two (2) years in which to connect it with such public sewer) and it
shall thereafter be unlawful for such owner or other person to have the plumbing in such building
remain unconnected to the public sewer or to maintain or use or cause or permit to exist any privy
vault, septic tank or cesspool to which the building is connected or which is used by the occupant
thereof. Whenever an accepted public sewer is available to receive connections therewith, the
manager of the system shall cause appropriate notice to be served upon the owner, agent or other
persons having charge of or occupying all property coming within the scope of this Section, that
the public sewer is ready to receive connections therewith and that all plumbing must be connected
with such sewer.

18.14.040 Storm Drainage
No ditch or canal may be approved as suitable for the use of storm drainage water without the
written permission of the appropriate ditch or canal company or of the water users for such use.
No ditch or canal may be used for stormwaters unless adequately improved to handle such water
as might be reasonably expected to flow from canal and ditch water, subdivision runoff water, and
other water expected to reach such canal or ditch. No ditch, canal or other waterway may be
permitted within property dedicated or to be dedicated for public use. The subdivider shall remove
such waterways from property to be so dedicated prior to the construction of required off-site
improvements.

18.14.050 Street Improvements
A. The subdivider shall submit a complete set of construction plans and profiles of all streets,
existing and proposed, within the subdivision to the Planning and Development Services Division.
Plans and profiles are to be prepared by a professional engineer licensed to practice in the State of
Utah and shall be accompanied by the final plat. The subdivider must also provide all GIS data
corresponding to the submitted plans as required by Section 18.10.060. The Planning and
Development Services Division shall, within a reasonable time not to exceed twenty (20) days
from the receipt of the plans and profiles, notify the subdivider of approval, and in case of
disapproval the reasons therefor. Such plans and profiles shall include:

            1. The designation of limits of work to be done;

           2. The location of the benchmark and its true elevation according to County Policy
1013, “Standards for Geographic Information System” and the “Salt Lake County Public Works
Engineering GIS Standards,” all profiles to be referred to in those standards;

            3. Profiles which indicate the finished and existing grades for the centerline of the
street. Separate profiles, clearly designated, shall be made for each side of the street;
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 35 of 57

            4. Profile of all public storm drain system and any private system that connects to
public system;

             5. Construction plans which include the details of curb and gutter and street cross-
sections, location and elevation of manholes, catch basins and storm sewers, elevations and
location of fire hydrants, location of existing and proposed public survey control monuments and
street centerline monuments, and any other detail necessary to simplify construction;

            6. Complete date for field layout and office checking;

            7. On curb returns, at least two additional control points for elevation besides those at
points of curvature. Control points shall be staked in the field to ensure drainage at intersection;
and

           8. The street address of the project as approved by Planning and Development Services
and subdivision name if applicable.

B. At least ten (10) days prior to the commencement of construction, the subdivider shall furnish
to Planning and Development Services two (2) bound twenty-four inch by thirty-six inch (24”x36”
hard copies of the complete set of approved construction plans and profiles of all streets, existing
and proposed, as well as all corresponding GIS data in a format compatible with this Chapter. The
approved hard copy sets of the construction plans and profiles shall include all information
required in Subsection A.

18.14.060 Arrangement Of Streets
The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of the
existing streets in adjoining areas and shall provide access to unsubdivided adjoining areas insofar
as such continuation or access shall be deemed necessary by the land use authority. New streets
shall connect with existing public streets.

18.14.070 Utility And Facility Systems To Be Underground
All utility and facility systems including, but not limited to, all poles, towers, wires, lines, cables,
conduits, and pipes providing services such as electricity, telephone, telegraph, cable television,
gas, water, sewer, steam or petroleum including service drops, distribution systems, and
transmission systems shall be placed underground in accordance with municipal ordinances and
policies. (Refer to Chapter 19.46 of this Code, Utility and Facility System Placement Regulations.)

18.14.080 Streetlighting
A. Except as provided for in Subsection E below, adequate street lighting shall be provided for the
safety and welfare of residents and businesses located in the municipality through the installation
of a street lighting system as part of subdivision development.

B. All streetlights intended to illuminate the public street shall be installed in accordance with the
“Standard Specifications for Street Light Construction” as established and approved by the Public
Works Operations Director or designee. Streetlight systems shall be designated on approved plats
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 36 of 57

and installed accordingly.

             1. For all residential, multi-family residential, planned unit development, commercial,
and industrial subdivision developments approved after the effective date of this ordinance, the
subdivider shall install and pay the installation costs for streetlights as shown on the approved
subdivision plat or site plan and to post a bond, pursuant to Chapter 18.16, guaranteeing proper
installation. The subdivider shall also provide a dedicated public utility easement from each
respective underground power source to each streetlight.

             2. Items to be approved pursuant to the requirements of the “Standard Specifications
for Streetlight Construction” include:

               a. Appropriate distance or spacing;

               b. Alternating sides of street, when applicable;

               c. Appropriate illumination at intersections;

               d. Location upon the property;

               e. Streetlight type and decorative style based on street classification;

               f. Height based on location;

               g. Installation methods and requirements; and

              h. Illumination intensity, electrical specifications, and code requirements as
determined by the “Standard Specifications for Streetlight Construction.”

C. The subdivider or designee shall submit completed as-built-drawings and the GIS data
corresponding to the as-built drawings, as required by Section 18.24 to the Public Works
Operations Director or designee within thirty (30') days of the completion of the installation of a
street light system within a subdivision development.

D. The Public Works Operations Director or designee shall have the authority:

          1. To enforce this Section and to ensure that streetlight installation is completed in
compliance with all of its requirements; and,

            2. To vary the standards referenced in this Section and to approve alternative streetlight
designs and locations when adverse topography, roadway geometrics and design, the presence of
natural vegetation, or any other adverse conditions exist which would justify such variations and
alternatives without being detrimental to the public safety or welfare.

E. The administrative land use authority shall have the authority to waive or modify the
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 37 of 57

requirement for streetlight installation in subdivisions upon finding that:

            1. The subdivision is located in an environmentally sensitive area; or

            2. The subdivision will result in three (3) or fewer new lots; or

            3. The subdivision will not result in any other public street improvements.

18.14.090 Pavement Requirements
A. All streets within the municipality shall be improved with pavements bounded by integral
concrete curbs and gutters to an overall width in accordance with the standards, rules and
regulations adopted by the Council.

B. Pavements shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the standards, rules and
regulations adopted by the Council.

18.14.100 Curbs And Gutters
A. Curbs and gutters on all streets shall be concrete of the standard high-back-type unit, not less
than two feet, six inches in overall width, and not less than seven inches thick where the curb abuts
the street pavement.

B. All curb corners shall have a radius of not less than twenty-five feet, or thirty-five feet on streets
designated as collector or arterial streets.

C. The subdivider shall install curbs, gutters and sidewalks on existing and proposed streets in all
subdivisions.

18.14.110 Street Name Signs
Street name signs, conforming to the design and specifications and in the number provided by the
standards, rules and regulations of the municipality, shall be provided by the developer at all street
intersections. Installation shall be made by the municipality to ensure uniformity.

18.14.120 Trails
To the extent allowed by the Municipal Land Use Development and Management Act, the
applicant shall dedicate trails necessary to provide public access to public lands and other trails
shown on the general plan, any other adopted plan, or required by the planning commission. Trails
shall be located so that the route is feasible for both construction and long-term maintenance; side
slopes may not exceed seventy percent (70%) and rock cliffs and other insurmountable physical
obstructions shall be avoided. The specific location of the trail right-of-way shall be verified on
the ground before approval of the subdivision.

18.14.130 Fire Hydrants
Fire hydrants shall be installed in all subdivisions in accordance with the regulations of the fire
authority.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 38 of 57

18.14.140 Stormwater Inlets And Catch Basins
Stormwater inlets and catch basins shall be provided within the roadway improvements at points
specified by the Municipal Engineering Division.

18.14.150 Open Ditches And Canals-Permitted When
A. Open ditches or canals may not be allowed within or adjoining a subdivision except along rear
or side lot lines. The subdivider shall work with irrigation, drainage or ditch companies as to:

            1. Methods of covering, realigning or eliminating ditches or canals within or adjoining
the subdivision;

               2. The size of pipe and culverts required;

            3. The responsibility for the periodic inspection, cleaning and maintenance of such
ditches, pipes and culverts. In cases where canals or ditches cross public roads or proposed public
roads, specifications and grades for pipe or culvert must be approved by the Planning and
Development Services Division.

B. Irrigation components, whether open or piped, require water master approval.

               1. If existing irrigation components are suspected and not identified, then verification
is required.

               2. If irrigation components are present, they are checked to comply with the ordinance.

          3. The Water Master's signature is required on any sheet in the final construction plans
which show irrigation components.

            4. Final approval of the construction plans shall be withheld until Water Master's
signature is confirmed.

18.14.160 Open Ditches And Canals-Fencing Requirements
The subdivider shall install a six-foot, nonclimbable chain-link fence, or its equivalent, in
conformance with the standards and rules and regulations adopted as provided in Section
18.12.010, along all open ditches, canals or waterways, nonaccess streets, open reservoirs or bodies
of water, railroad rights-of­ way and other such features of potentially hazardous nature on,
crossing or contiguous to the property being subdivided, except along those features which the
land use authority shall determine would not be a hazard to life, or where the conforming structure
would create a hazard to the safety of the public.

18.14.170 Fencing Requirements
A. Where lots rear on a public street the developer shall install a decorative masonry wall along
the street right-of-way which is:

               1. A solid visual barrier screening constructed of brick, reinforced stacked stone, cast
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 39 of 57

stone, split faced block, architecturally treated concrete masonry units, or brick or stone veneer
over block;

           2. A minimum of six feet (6') high from the top of curb or, if there is no curb, from the
crown of the street;

           3. Maintained by the abutting property owner;

             4. Constructed with a sealant placed on any masonry fence to help with the removal of
graffiti and to preserve the surface;

           5. Constructed according to development standards approved by the land use authority;

            6. Placed on the property line with the space between the fence and the sidewalk hard
surfaced or planted with a perennial, climbing, groundcover and an irrigation system.

B. In lieu of a masonry wall, the land use authority may authorize a decorative masonry wall
equivalent such as architectural precast concrete if the concrete is articulated and colored in a
manner to be comparable to natural materials.

18.14.180 Construction Of Improvements
A. Twenty-four hours prior to construction of any required improvements, the Municipal
Engineering Division shall be notified so that proper inspection may be provided and so that it
may be determined whether or not proper authorization and/or required permits for construction
have been obtained.

B. As-built plans, profile drawings, and corresponding GIS data shall be furnished to the Municipal
Engineering Division of all street improvements, storm drain, sanitary sewer, and water systems
upon completion. Planning and Development Services shall retain the improvement bond until
such plans have been submitted.

C. Extreme care should be exercised on the part of the subdivider, the contractor and all other
associated agencies for the protection and maintenance of all existing or newly placed
improvements or facilities within the roadway sections during development.

18.14.190 Responsibility For Damages
All damages to any bonded improvements or facilities incurred during the period of development
shall be the sole responsibility of the subdivider and must be replaced to the satisfaction of the
Municipal Engineer before final acceptance of any improvements, and bond release. Any damages
that occur during building construction, shall be the responsibility of the builder, and will be
satisfactorily repaired prior to the issuance of any certificates of occupancy. At the discretion of
the Municipal Engineer, additional bonding may be required.

CHAPTER 18.16 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES
18.16.010 Performance Guarantee Required
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 40 of 57

18.16.020 Performance Bonds
18.16.030 Final Disposition And Release
18.16.040 Default
18.16.050 Warranty Bond, Phase I: Reclamation
18.16.060 Warranty Bond, Phase II: Durability Bond
18.16.070 Fee In Lieu Of Required Improvements

18.16.010 Performance Guarantee Required
A. Wherever a performance guarantee is required under the terms of this Title, the performance
guarantee shall be submitted:

             1. In conformance with this Chapter; and

             2. Prior to the commencement of any improvements covered by the performance
guarantee.

18.16.020 Performance Bonds
A. Prior to the recording of a plat or conducting any development activity, in lieu of actual
completion of the improvements listed in this Title, subdividers may file with Planning and
Development Services a performance bond to assure actual construction of such improvements
within a one-year period or the recording of the final plat.

B. If the applicant elects to post a performance bond in lieu of completing the improvements prior
to the recording of the final plat, the applicant shall provide a performance bond for:

             1. The completion of one hundred percent (100%) of the required improvements; or

          2. If the Municipal Engineering Division has inspected and accepted a portion of the
required improvements, one hundred percent (100%) of the incomplete or unaccepted
improvements.

C. The amount of the performance bond for public improvements such as curb, gutter, sidewalk,
road construction and surfacing, flood control and fire hydrants shall be established by the
Municipal Engineering Division’s estimated cost of completion.

D. The performance bond shall also secure any required improvements on individual lots within
the subdivision which are required in this Chapter.

E. The performance bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an escrow agreement, or an
irrevocable letter of credit from a financial institution located in the State of Utah.

F. A performance bond agreement shall be entered into by Planning and Development Services
and the subdivider:

             1. The performance bond agreement shall include a provision that the performance
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 41 of 57

bond shall expire within thirteen (13) months from the date issued if the bonded improvements are
not complete.

           2. If the project has not been completed by that date, then the performance bond shall
be considered foreclosed upon.

            3. If the project has not been timely complete, all remaining funds shall be thereafter
remitted to the Planning and Development Services Division as set forth in the performance bond
agreement.

           4. The 13-month period described in subsection (F)(1) may be extended only if special
circumstances warrant and extension, as determined by the Director after consultation with the
Municipal Engineering Division.

G. A performance bond may be partially released if the performance to which it relates has been
satisfactorily completed, except that not less than ten percent (10%) of the performance bond shall
be retained to ensure completion of the entire performance, which shall be in addition to the 10%
that must be retained as a warranty for all bonded improvements that have been installed.

H. The Director or designee may establish objective procedures consistent with this Section
relating to the administration of performance bonds, including fund management, default and
collection.

18.16.030 Final Disposition And Release
A. Upon completion of the work for which a performance bond has been posted, the developer
shall submit to the Director or designee, one copy of a written request for release.

B. After receipt of the notice and request under Subsection A of this Section, within five (5) days
the Municipal Engineering Division shall make a preliminary inspection of the improvements and
shall submit a report to the Director or designee setting forth the condition of the facilities.

C. The Director or designee shall receive the report and, within seven (7) days of the inspection,
authorize release of a portion of the performance bond corresponding to the work completed and
approved if the Municipal Engineering Division finds, based on objective inspection standards,
that the condition of the improvements are satisfactory.

D. The portion of the bond to be held as a durability bond under Section 18.16.050 of this Chapter
may not be release until the durability period has expired and an inspection has been conducted by
the Municipal Engineering Division that finds, based on objective inspection standards, that the
condition of the improvements are satisfactory.

E. A bond may not be released if, after consulting with the Municipal Engineering Division, the
Director:

           1. Finds that the condition of material or workmanship shows unusual depreciation or
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 42 of 57

does not comply with the acceptable standards of durability; or

            2. Finds that any other terms of the bond agreement have not been satisfied; or

           3. As built plans, including profile drawings, have not been filed and corresponding
GIS data (as required) has not been submitted; or

F. If the bonds are not released, the reasons shall be given to the subdivider in writing within seven
(7) days from the time of the inspection.

G. In the case of a dispute over the release of a performance bond under this Section, the Director
may refer the matter to the Council for subsequent action to secure performance.

H. Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Chapter 3.56 of this Code.

18.16.040 Default
A. Upon substantiating a finding under Subsection B of this Section, the Director with approval of
the Council may, with due notice to the developer:

            1. Declare the performance bond forfeited; and

           2. Install or cause the required improvement to be installed using the proceeds from
the performance bond to defray the costs.

B. A performance bond may be forfeited under Subsection A of this Section if the Director finds
that a developer has failed or neglected to:

            1. Satisfactorily install the required improvements;

            2. Make required corrections;

            3. Make payment to Planning and Development Services for administration and
inspections; or

            4. Otherwise failed to carry out the activity for which the performance bond was
required.

C. The developer is responsible for work beyond the limits of the bond amount.

D. Any funds remaining after completion of the required improvements will be returned to the
developer.

18.16.050 Warranty Bond, Phase I: Reclamation
A. Prior to conducting any development activity, the developer shall file with Planning and
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 43 of 57

Development Services a reclamation bond to ensure that the site can be made safe in the event the
developer is unable to complete the required improvements.

B. The amount of the reclamation bond for public improvements such as curb, gutter, sidewalk,
road construction and surfacing, flood control and fire hydrants shall be not less than ten percent
(10%) of the Municipal Engineering Division’s estimated cost of completion.

C. The reclamation bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an escrow agreement, or an
irrevocable letter of credit from a financial institution located in the State of Utah.

D. At the end of the construction phase of the project, when the Municipal Engineering Division
has approved and accepted the required improvements, the reclamation bond becomes the
durability bond, with the final disposition and release subject to the same standards as the durability
bond.

18.16.060 Warranty Bond, Phase II: Durability Bond
A. The Planning and Development Services Division shall retain a durability bond in the amount
of not less than ten percent (10%) of the initial amount of the performance bond or the applicant’s
reasonable proven cost of completion. The durability bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an
escrow agreement, or an irrevocable letter of credit. The durability bond shall be for the purpose
of warrantying the improvements and shall be for a period of:

            1. One (1) year after final acceptance of the improvement or warranty work; or

            2. Two (2) years after final acceptance of the improvement or warranty work, if the
Director:

               a. Determines for good cause that a lesser period would be inadequate to protect
the public health, safety, and welfare; and

               b. Has substantial evidence of any of the following:

                       i.      Prior poor performance of the applicant;

                       ii.     Unstable soil conditions within the subdivision or development area;
                               or

                       iii.    Extreme fluctuations in climatic conditions that would render
                               impracticable the discovery of substandard or defective
                               performance within a one-year period.

B. A determination under Subsection A2 of this section shall be made by the Municipal
Engineering Division in consultation with the Director.

C. If, after the warranty period, the durability of said improvements is found to be satisfactory, the
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 44 of 57

retainage may be released following the procedure outlined under Section 18.16.030 of this
Chapter.

D. The Director may authorize a release of fifty percent (50%) of the improvement durability bond
prior to the warranty period, if determined appropriate based on a finding of:

           1. The project has been completed and found acceptable and all monies have been
released except for the durability bond;

            2. An error in the initial amount of the performance bond or the original calculation of
the durability bond; or

            3. A fact that was previously unknown to the Municipal Engineering Division that is
material in a determination that the municipality's public health, safety, and welfare would still be
adequately protected.

E. The person giving the durability bond shall correct the improvements if at any time during the
warranty period:

            1. Any required improvement fails or shows unusual depreciation;

           2. Certain work has not been completed or it becomes evident that certain work was
not completed; or

           3. The materials or workmanship used in constructing the improvements do not
otherwise comply with accepted standards of durability.

F. If the corrections are not made within a reasonable time, the Director, with review from the
Council, in accordance with Section 18.16.040 of this Chapter, may declare the person in default
and use the retainage to defray the cost of any required work.

18.16.070 Fee In Lieu Of Required Improvements
A. Where present conditions exist which make it unfeasible or impractical for the developer or
property owner to install any required public improvements, the Director may require the
subdivider to pay to White City a fee equal to the estimated cost of such improvements as
determined by the Municipal Engineering Division. Upon payment of the fee by the developer,
White City shall assume the responsibility for future installation of such improvements.

B. The auditor shall establish a special account for such fees and shall credit to such account a
proportioned share of interest earned from investment of municipal moneys. Records relating to
identification of properties for which fees have been collected, fee amounts collected for such
properties and money transfer requests shall be the responsibility of the Planning and Development
Services Division.

CHAPTER 18.18 SUBDIVISION AMENDMENTS
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 45 of 57

18.18.010-Purpose
18.18.020 Boundary Line Adjustments
18.18.030 Subdivision Amendments
18.18.040 Approval Of Vacation Or Amendment Of Plat
18.18.050 Petition To Vacate A Public Street
18.18.060 Amendments To Create Additional Lots
18.18.070 Other Amendments To Subdivisions
18.18.080 Correction Of Technical Errors

18.18.010-Purpose
This Chapter establishes review and approval procedures for subdivision amendments and
boundary line adjustments.

18.18.020 Boundary Line Adjustments
A. If properly executed and acknowledged as required by law, an agreement between owners of
adjoining property that designates the boundary line between the adjoining properties acts, upon
recording in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder as a quitclaim deed to convey all of each
party’s right, title, interest, and estate in property outside the agreed boundary line that had been
the subject of the boundary line agreement or dispute that led to the boundary line agreement.

B. Requirements. Adjoining property owners executing a boundary line agreement described in
Subsection A shall:

            1. Ensure that the agreement includes:

               a. A legal description of the agreed upon boundary line and of each parcel or lot
after the boundary line is changed;

               b. The name and signature of each grantor that is party to the agreement;

               c. A sufficient acknowledgment for each grantor’s signature;

              d. The parcel identification number and street address of each grantee for
assessment purposes;

               e. A legal description of the parcel or lot each grantor owns before the boundary
line is changed;

               f. The date of the agreement if the date is not included in the acknowledgment in a
form substantially similar to a quitclaim deed; and

              g. Ensure that violations of the width, area, frontage, setback and other
requirements are not created, and that any existing, legal nonconformities are not increased by any
degree.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 46 of 57

            2. If any of the property subject to the boundary line agreement is part of a subdivision
lot, prepare an amended plat, to be approved by the land use authority designated by Section
18.08.010, before executing the boundary line agreement; and

            3. If none of the property subject to the boundary line agreement is a part of a
subdivision lot, ensure that the boundary line agreement includes a statement citing the file number
of a record of a survey map on record with the Salt Lake County Surveyor.

C. Presumptions. A boundary line agreement described in Subsection A that complies with
Subsection B presumptively:

           1. Has no detrimental effect on any easement on the property that is recorded before
the day on which the agreement is executed unless the owner of the property benefitting from the
easement specifically modifies the easement within the boundary line agreement or a separate
recorded easement modification or relinquishment document; and

            2. Relocates the parties’ common boundary line for an exchange of consideration.

D. Metes and Bounds Parcels. A boundary line agreement that only affects metes and bounds
parcels is not subject to:

            1. Any public notice, public hearing, or preliminary platting requirement;

            2. The review of a land use authority; or

           3. An engineering review or approval of the municipality, except as provided in
Subsection E.

E. Boundary Line Agreements when Dwelling Units are Present.

           1. If a parcel that is the subject of a boundary line agreement contains a dwelling unit,
the owners shall submit the boundary line agreement to Planning and Development Services for
review.

            2. The purpose of the review is to ensure that violations of the width, area, frontage,
setback and other requirements are not created, and that any existing, legal nonconformities are
not increased by any degree.

            3. Planning and Development Services shall complete the review within fourteen (14)
days after the day on which the property owner submits the boundary line agreement for review.

            4. If Planning and Development Services determines that the boundary line agreement
is deficient or if additional information is required to approve the boundary line agreement,
Planning and Development Services shall, within fourteen (14) days, send written notice to the
property owner that:
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 47 of 57


               a. Describes the specific deficiency or additional information required to approve
the boundary line agreement; and

               b. State that the municipality shall approve the boundary line agreement upon the
property owner’s correction of the deficiency or submission of the additional information
described in the notice;

            5. If Planning and Development Services approves the boundary line agreement, the
Director or Designee shall send written notice of the boundary line agreement’s approval to the
property owner within fourteen (14) days.

           6. If the municipality fails to send a written notice within fourteen (14) days, the
property owner may record the boundary line agreement as if no review was required.

18.18.030 Subdivision Amendments
A. Application Required. A fee owner of land, as shown on the last county assessment roll, in an
approved subdivision that has been recorded with the Salt Lake County recorder may file an
application with the Planning and Development Services Division to request a subdivision
amendment.

B. Plat Required. Upon filing an application to request a subdivision amendment, the owner shall
prepare a plat in accordance with Chapter 18.10 that:

           1. Depicts only the portion of the subdivision that is proposed to be amended;

           2. Includes a plat name distinguishing the amended plat from the original plat;

           3. Describes the differences between the amended plat and the original plat; and

           4. Includes references to the original plat.

C. Notice. The Director or designee shall provide notice of the petition by mail, email, or other
effective means to each affected entity that provides a service to an owner of record of the portion
of the plat that is being vacated or amended at least ten (10) calendar days before the land use
authority may approve the petition for a subdivision amendment.

D. Public Hearing Required. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing within forty-
five (45) days after the day on which the petition is filed if:

            1. Any owner within the plat notifies the municipality or Planning and Development
Services of the owner’s objection in writing within ten (10) days of mailed notification; or

            2. A public hearing is required because all of the owners in the subdivision have not
signed the revised plat.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 48 of 57


E. Public Hearing Not Required. The public hearing requirement does not apply, and the Planning
Commission may consider at a public meeting an owner’s petition for a subdivision amendment
if:

            1. The petition seeks to:

               a. Join two (2) or more of the petitioner fee owner’s contiguous lots;

                 b. Subdivide one (1) or more of the petitioning fee owner’s lots, if the subdivision
will not result in a violation of a land use ordinance or a development condition;

                c. Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and an adjoining parcel if
the fee owners of each of the adjoining properties join in the petition, regardless of whether the
properties are located in the same subdivision;

              d. On a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an internal lot restriction
imposed by the local political subdivision; or

                 e. Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing boundaries or other
attributes of lots within the subdivision that are not:

                       i. Owned by the petitioner; or

                       ii. Designated as a common area; and.

            2. Notice has been given to adjoining property owners in accordance with any
applicable local ordinance.

F. An administrative land use authority may not approve a petition for a subdivision amendment
under this Section unless the amendment identifies and preserves any easements owned by a
culinary water authority and sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities located within the
subdivision.

G. A request to amend a public street or municipal utility easement is also subject to Section
18.18.050.

H. A request to amend an entire plat or a portion of a plat shall include:

             1. The name and address of each owner of record of the land contained in the entire
plat or on that portion of the plat described in the petition; and

            2. The signature of each owner of record of the land contained in the entire plat or on
that portion of the plat described in the petition who consents to the petition.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 49 of 57

I. The name of a recorded subdivision may be changed by recording an amended plat making that
change, as provided in this Section. An owner of land may not submit for recording an amended
plat that gives the subdivision described in the amended plat the same name as a subdivision in a
plat already recorded in the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.

           1. The surveyor preparing the amended plat shall certify that the surveyor:

               a. Holds a license in accordance with Utah Code; and

              b. Has completed a survey of the property described on the plat in accordance Utah
Code and has verified all measurements; or

               c. Has referenced a record of survey map of the existing property boundaries shown
on the plat and verified the locations of the boundaries; and

               d. Has placed monuments as represented on the plat.

18.18.040 Approval Of Vacation Or Amendment Of Plat
A. The administrative land use authority may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by
signing an amended plat showing the vacation or amendment if the land use authority finds that:

           1. There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and

           2. No public street or municipal utility easement has been vacated or amended.

B. The administrative land use authority shall ensure that the amended plat showing the vacation
or amendment is recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.

C. If the amended plat is approved and recorded in accordance with this Section, the recorded plat
shall vacate, supersede, and replace any contrary provision in a previously recorded plat of the
same land.

D. The Council may vacate a subdivision or a portion of a subdivision by recording in the Salt
Lake County Recorder’s Office an ordinance describing the subdivision or the portion being
vacated. The recorded vacating ordinance shall replace a previously recorded plat described in the
vacating ordinance.

E. An amended plat may not be submitted to the Salt Lake County Recorder for recording unless
it is:

           1. Signed by the administrative land use authority; and

              2. Signed, acknowledged, and dedicated by each owner of record of the portion of the
plat that is amended.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 50 of 57

F. A management committee may sign and dedicate an amended plat as provided in Utah Code,
Title 57, Chapter 8, Condominium Ownership Act.

G. A plat may be corrected as provided in Utah Code Section 57-3-106.

18.18.050 Petition To Vacate A Public Street
A. In lieu of vacating some or all of a public street through a plat or amended plat in accordance
with Utah Code, a legislative body may approve a petition to vacate a public street in accordance
with this Section.

B. Application. A petition to vacate some or all of a public street or municipal utility easement
shall include:

             1. The name and address of each owner of record of land that is:

               a. Adjacent to the public street or municipal utility easement between the two
nearest public street intersections; or

               b. Accessed exclusively by or within three hundred feet (300’) of the public street
or municipal utility easement;

             2. Proof of written notice to operators of utilities and culinary water or sanitary sewer
facilities located within the bounds of the public street or municipal utility easement sought to be
vacated; and

             3. The signature of each owner due notice who consents to the vacation.

C. Notice. If a petition is submitted containing a request to vacate some or all of a public street or
municipal utility easement, the Council shall hold a public hearing, giving notice of the date, place,
and time of the hearing as follows:

             1. At least ten (10) days before the public hearing, the legislative body shall ensure that
notice is:

               a. Mailed to the record owner of each parcel that is accessed by the public street or
municipal utility easement;

                b. Mailed to each affected entity;

                c. Posted on or near the public street or municipal utility easement in a manner that
is calculated to alert the public; and

               d. Publish notice on the municipal website and the Utah Public Notice Website until
the public hearing concludes.
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 51 of 57

D. Determination. After having held a public hearing as required herein, the Council shall
determine whether:

            1. Good cause exists for the vacation; and

            2. The public interest or any person will be materially injured by the proposed vacation.

E. Adoption. The Council may adopt an ordinance granting a petition to vacate some or all of a
public street or municipal utility easement if the Council finds that:

            1. Good cause exists for the vacation; and

            2. Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by the vacation.

F. Recording. If the Council adopts an ordinance vacating some or all of a public street or
municipal utility easement, the Council shall ensure that one or both of the following is recorded
in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder:

            1. A plat reflecting the vacation; or

            2. An ordinance described in Subsection D and a legal description of the public street
to be vacated.

G. Limitations. The action of the Council vacating some or all of a public street or municipal utility
easement that has been dedicated to public use:

            1. Operates to the extent to which it is vacated, upon the effective date of the recorded
plat or ordinance, as a revocation of the acceptance of and the relinquishment of the municipality’s
fee in the vacated public street or municipal utility easement; and

            2. May not be construed to impair:

               a. Any right-of-way or easement of any parcel or lot owner;

               b. The rights of any public utility; or

               c. The rights of a culinary water authority or sanitary sewer authority.

H. Municipal Petition to Vacate. The municipality may submit a petition, in accordance with
Subsection B, and initiate and complete a process to vacate some or all of a public street.

            1. If the municipality submits a petition and initiates a process under this subsection:

               a. The Council shall hold a public hearing;
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 52 of 57

               b. The petition and process may not apply to or affect a public utility easement,
except to the extent:

                       i. The easement is not a protected utility easement as defined in Utah Code;

                       ii. The easement is included within the public street; and

                       iii. The notice to vacate the public street also contains a notice to vacate the
easement; and

               c. A recorded ordinance to vacate a public street has the same legal effect as
vacating a public street through a recorded plat or amended plat.

I. Water and Sewer Easements. The Council may not approve a petition to vacate a public street
under this section unless the vacation identifies and preserves any easements owned by a culinary
water authority and sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities located within the public street.

18.18.060 Amendments To Create Additional Lots
An amendment to a recorded subdivision to create one or more additional lots shall follow the
approval procedure outlined in Chapter 18.08. Where the amendment does not include the creation
of additional infrastructure beyond service lines, this amendment process may utilize a streamlined
final plat process.

18.18.070 Other Amendments To Subdivisions
A. An amendment to a recorded subdivision that involves the alteration or removal of an easement,
private right-of-way, condition, limitation, or special requirement shall follow the approval
procedure outlined in Chapter 18.08 with the following variations:

            1. Only those persons or entities who have a direct interest in, or who will be directly
affected by the proposed change (including the applicant) must be notified of any pending action;
and

       2. No preliminary plat need be approved. The recommendations of the affected entities and
the approval of the Planning Commission may be based on a final plat.

18.18.080 Correction Of Technical Errors
An amendment to correct a technical error, such as misnumbered street addresses or an errant note
on the plat may be done through recording an affidavit of correction by the Director.

CHAPTER 18.20 FILING PROFESSIONAL SURVEYS
18.20.010 Filing Required, Indexing And Fees
18.20.020 Contents Of Maps
18.20.030 Written Narrative
18.20.040 Marking Monuments
18.20.050 Changes Of Section Or Quarter Section Corners
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 53 of 57

18.20.060 Compliance By Governmental Agencies
18.20.070 Amendment By Affidavit
18.20.080 County Surveyor Certification
18.20.090 Penalty

18.20.010 Filing Required, Indexing And Fees
A. Any licensed professional land surveyor making a boundary survey of private lands within this
state who establishes or reestablishes any property boundary line; or to obtain data for construction
of a map of plat showing the boundary line, shall file a map of the survey that meets the
requirements of this Chapter with the Salt Lake County Surveyor within ninety (90) days of the
establishment or reestablishment of the boundary line.

B. The Salt Lake County Surveyor shall file and index the map of the survey which will thereafter
be a public record in the office of the Salt Lake County Surveyor and will be available for
examination and purchase by the public. The Salt Lake County Surveyor will provide facilities for
copying such maps and associated documents.

C. Fees will be charged for services in accordance with the adopted fee schedule.

D. The requirements of this Section are in addition to Chapter 14.17, Excavation Permit for
Monuments.

18.20.020 Contents Of Maps
A. The County Surveyor will screen maps of survey that are submitted to ensure that they conform
to the requirements set forth in this Chapter before receiving them. Such maps shall be drawn on
a twenty-four-inch by thirty-six-inch (24” x 36”) reproduceable mylar using waterproof black
drawing ink with text of not less than one-tenth inch in size; or submitted as a digital electronic
file in a type and format approved by the Salt Lake County Surveyor; and shall show:

            1. The location of survey by quarter section and township and range;

            2. The date of survey;

            3. The scale of drawing and north point;

            4. The distance and course of all lines traced or established, giving the basis of bearing
and the distance and course to two or more section corners or quarter corners, including township
and range, or to identified monuments within a recorded subdivision;

            5. All measured bearings, angles and distances separately indicated from those of
record;

            6. A written boundary description of property surveyed;

            7. All monuments set and their relation to older monuments found;
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 54 of 57


              8. A detailed description of monuments found and monuments set, indicated
separately;

              9. The surveyor's seal or stamp;

              10. The surveyor's business name and address; and

            11. Each boundary survey map shall reserve a one and one-half by four-inch (1.5” x
4”) space in the lower right-hand corner of the drawing for the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s use
in indexing.

18.20.030 Written Narrative
A. The map of survey shall include a written narrative that explains and identifies the purpose of
the survey; the basis on which the lines were established; and the found monuments and deed
elements that controlled the established or reestablished lines.

18.20.040 Marking Monuments
A. Any monument set by a licensed professional land surveyor to mark or reference a point on a
property of land or land line shall be durably and visibly marked or tagged with the registered
business name or the letters “L.S.” followed by the registration number of the surveyor in charge.

B. If the monument is set by a public officer, it shall be marked with the official title of the office.

18.20.050 Changes Of Section Or Quarter Section Corners
A. If, in the performance of a survey, a surveyor finds or makes any changes to the section corner
or quarter-section corner, or their accessories as they are described in an existing corner record or
survey map in the Office of the Salt Lake County Surveyor, the surveyor shall complete and submit
to the Salt Lake County Surveyor a record of the changes made.

B. The record shall be submitted within forty-five (45) days of the corner visits and shall include
the surveyor's seal, business name, and address.

18.20.060 Compliance By Governmental Agencies
Each federal or state agency, board or commission, special service district, or municipal
corporation that makes a boundary survey of lands within Salt Lake County shall comply with this
Chapter.

18.20.070 Amendment By Affidavit
A. Any survey map or narrative filed and recorded under the provisions of this Chapter may be
amended by an affidavit of corrections:

              1. To show any courses or distances omitted from the map or narrative;

              2. To correct an error in the description of the real property shown on the map or
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 55 of 57

narrative; or

           3. To correct any other errors or omissions where the error or omission is ascertainable
from the data shown on the map or narrative as recorded.

B. The affidavit of correction shall be prepared by the licensed professional land surveyor who
filed the map or narrative.

C. In the event of the death, disability or retirement from practice of the surveyor who filed the
map or narrative, the Salt Lake County Surveyor may prepare the affidavit of correction.

D. The affidavit shall set forth in detail the corrections made.

E. The seal and signature of the registered professional land surveyor filing the affidavit of
correction shall be affixed to the affidavit.

18.20.080 County Surveyor Certification
A. The Salt Lake County Surveyor having jurisdiction of the map or narrative shall certify that the
affidavit of correction has been examined and that the changes shown on the map or narrative are
changes permitted under this Section.

B. Nothing in this section permits changes in courses or distances for the purpose of redesigning
parcel configurations.

18.20.090 Penalty

Failure to file a map of survey as required in this Chapter is guilty of an infraction.

CHAPTER 18.22 HEALTH DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS
18.22.010 Adoption Of Health Regulations
18.22.020 Violations

18.22.010 Adoption Of Health Regulations
The regulating provisions of the Salt Lake County Health Department entitled "Subdivisions," as
currently adopted by the Board of Health under authority of the Utah State Code are incorporated
in their entirety by reference. Three copies of the current regulations shall be filed with and retained
by the Salt Lake County Clerk and the Health Department for examination by any person.

18.22.020 Violations
Violation of any provision of any health regulation incorporated into this Title shall constitute a
Class B misdemeanor as defined by the Utah State Code. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punished as such.

CHAPTER 18.24 FEES, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
18.24.010 Building Permit Issuance
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 56 of 57

18.24.020 Filing Fee
18.24.030 Inspections
18.24.040 Enforcement Authority
18.24.050 Forms And Instructions

18.24.010 Building Permit Issuance
From the time of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this Title, the building inspector
may not grant a permit, nor may any municipal officer grant any license or permit for the use of
any land or the construction or alteration of any building or structure on a lot which would be in
violation of any provisions of this Title until a subdivision plat has been recorded or approved as
required in this Chapter. Any license or permit issued in conflict with such provisions is void.

18.24.020 Filing Fee
Any and all persons filing plats with the Salt Lake County Recorder shall first have paid all fees
required in this Title. In addition, persons filing plats shall pay to Planning and Development
Services prior to recording, an office checking fee as provided for in Section 3.48.020.

18.24.030 Inspections
Planning and Development Services shall inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings, street
improvements, fire hydrants and water supply and sewage disposal systems in the course of
construction, installation or repair. Excavations for the fire hydrants and water and sewer mains
and laterals may not be covered or backfilled until such installation shall have been approved by
the service provider. If any such installation is covered before being inspected and approved, it
shall be uncovered after notice to uncover has been issued to the responsible person by the
inspector.

18.24.040 Enforcement Authority
Planning and Development Services, Municipal Engineering Division, fire authority, and such
other divisions as are specified under the provisions of this Title are designated and authorized as
the agencies charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this Title and shall enter such
actions in court as are necessary. Failure of such departments to pursue appropriate legal remedies
may not legalize any violation of such provisions.

18.24.050 Forms And Instructions
Application forms and instructions for preparing and processing plats and plans in accordance with
these regulations are periodically updated. Current copies of these forms and instructions are
available upon request from the Director. Documentation requirements are also specified in
Chapter 18.10, and application completeness standards are articulated in Chapter 18.08. Applicants
will be required to submit such other information as may be required by the Director of designee.

CHAPTER 18.26 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
18.26.010 Prohibited Acts
18.26.020 Violation-Penalty
18.26.030 Violation-Remedies
Title 18 Revisions -White City
Council Meeting – October 3, 2024
Page 57 of 57

18.26.010 Prohibited Acts
A. If a subdivision requires a plat, an owner of any land located in a subdivision who transfers or
sells any land in that subdivision before a plat of the subdivision has been approved and recorded
violates this Title for each lot or parcel transferred or sold.

B. The description by metes and bounds in an instrument of transfer or other documents used in
the process of selling or transferring does not exempt the transaction from being a violation of this
Subsection or from the penalties or remedies provided in this Chapter.

C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, the recording of an instrument of
transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transferring real property that violates
this part:

            1. Does not affect the validity of the instrument or other document; and

          2. Does not affect whether the property that is the subject of the instrument or other
document complies with applicable municipal ordinances on land use and development.

18.26.020 Violation-Penalty
Whoever violates any of the provisions of this Title, including the violation of a condition,
limitation or requirement contained on a recorded subdivision plat, is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction of any such violation, shall be punished as provided by the state criminal code for
Class B misdemeanors.

18.26.030 Violation-Remedies
A. A municipality may bring an action against an owner to require the property to conform to the
provisions of this Title or an ordinance enacted under the authority of this Title.

B. An action under this Subsection may include an injunction or any other appropriate action or
proceeding to prevent or enjoin the violation.

C. The municipality need only establish the violation to obtain the injunction.
