                                     WHITE CITY, UTAH

                                   Ordinance No. 2025-O-03

AN ORDINANCE SETTING FORTH THE ELECTION PROCESS FOR WHITE CITY'S
FIVE-MEMBER FORM OF GOVERNMENT PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE SECTION
10-1-201.5 (H.B. 35 - 2024 LEGISLATIVE SESSION) AND TO ENACT CONFORMING
 EDITS TO TITLE 2 OF THE WHITE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO COMPLY WITH
                                THIS ORDINANCE.

      WHEREAS, the municipality of White City (“White City”) incorporated as a metro
township on January 1, 2017; and

        WHEREAS, the laws governing metro townships required: (a) the White City Council
(“Council”) to consist of five members who were elected at large; and (b) for the Council, rather
than the voters of White City, to elect one Council member to serve as the Mayor of White City;
and

       WHEREAS, during the 2024 legislative session, the Utah Legislature passed H.B. 35,
which converted the metro townships of Copperton, Kearns, Emigration Canyon, Magna, and
White City into cities and towns based on their population effective May 1, 2024, see Utah Code
§10-1-201.5; and

       WHEREAS, on May 1, 2024, White City became a City pursuant to Utah Code § 10-2-
301(2)(e); and

         WHEREAS, among other things, H.B. 35 required: (a) White City to operate as a five-
member council forms of government under Title 10, Chapter 3b, Part 4 of the Utah Code until
such time as they elect (if they elect) to convert to a different form of municipal government; and
(b) for the then-existing Mayor to stand for election at-large at the next municipal election in 2025,
meaning that the position of Mayor will be separate from the at-large Council seats; and

        WHEREAS, to comply with H.B. 35, the Council must reduce its at-large seats from five
to four pursuant to its authority under Utah Code § 10-1-103;

        WHEREAS, to comply with H.B. 35, the Mayor shall be elected at-large by the electorate
rather than by Council; and

        WHEREAS, the White City Council believes, in order to simplify the at-large election
process and to allow the electorate to focus upon which offices are being voted upon, it is
appropriate to adopt a per seat, at-large, election process such that the electorate may vote for each
seat that is up for election and not have to choose more than one candidate per race on the ballot;
and

       WHEREAS, to accomplish the forgoing, the Council members shall be assigned individual
Seats designated as Seats A, B, C and D; and

                                                  1
       WHEREAS, the Council desires to make conforming edits to repeal and replace Title 2.04
of the White City Municipal Code, which governs White City’s form of government and related
matters involving Council administration, to reflect White City’s status as a five-member council
form of municipal government.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE WHITE CITY COUNCIL AS
FOLLOWS:

       1.      Enactment: The Mayor and Council’s at-large voting seats are numbered as
follows, provided that nothing in this Ordinance shall change the term of a Council member,
with the exception of the Mayor, whose term shall conclude on December 31, 2025, pursuant
to H.B. 35 and Utah Code § 10-1-201.5:

               a.   Mayor: Paulina Flint with a term ending December 31, 2025
               b.   At-Large Seat A: Greg Shelton with a term ending December 31, 2027
               c.   At-Large Seat B: Linda Price with a term ending December 31, 2025
               d.   At-Large Seat C: Phil Cardenaz with a term ending December 31, 2025
               e.   At-Large Seat D: Tyler Huish with a term ending December 31, 2027

       2.      Modifications to Chapter 2.04 of the White City Municipal Code: Chapter
2.04 of the White City Municipal Code is repealed and replaced in its entirety with the
ordinance attached hereto as Exhibit 1.

        3.      Severability: If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of
this ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this ordinance, or specific
application of this ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in
full force and effect.

        4.      Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and directed
to take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah
law, including but not limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711;
and (b) to finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making
non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.

       5.      Effective Date: This Ordinance shall go into effect on April 1, 2025.

                                  [Execution on following page]




                                                 2
ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the White City Council on this 6th
day of March 2025.

WHITE CITY COUNCIL


By: ____________________
Paulina Flint, Mayor
                                                            Approval To Form

ATTEST:                                                     ____________________


By: ____________________
Rori Andreason, Clerk


WHITE CITY COUNCIL VOTE:

Mayor Flint voting                   Aye
Council Member Shelton voting        Aye
Council Member Price voting          Aye
Council Member Cardenas voting       Aye
Council Member Huish voting          Nay

   (Complete as Applicable)
   Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code §10-3-
   711:__________________________________________________________________
   Effective date of ordinance: April 1, 2025




                                                3
                                        SUMMARY OF
                                         WHITE CITY
                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-03

        On March ____, 2025, the White City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-O-03 to modify the at-
large seats of the Council and enacting repealing and replaced Chapter 2.04 of the White City Municipal
Code to comply with H.B. 35, effective April 1, 2025, pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-1-103, 10-3b-401, et
seq., and 10-3-205.5.

WHITE CITY COUNCIL


By: ____________________
Paulina Flint, Mayor


ATTEST:


By: ____________________
Rori Andreason, Clerk


WHITE CITY COUNCIL VOTE:

Mayor Flint voting                     ___
Council Member Shelton voting          ___
Council Member Price voting            ___
Council Member Cardenas voting         ___
Council Member Huish voting            ___

A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-01 is available in the office of the White City Clerk, 2001
South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.




                                                   4
                                                EXHIBIT 1
CHAPTER 2.04 -- CITY COUNCIL

2.04.010 Form of Government
White City operates as a five-member council form of municipal government pursuant to applicable state
law, and the powers of municipal government are vested in a council consisting of five members, one of
which is the Mayor.

2.04.020 Powers and Duties

The Council shall be the governing body of White City and may exercise those powers and authorities
and be bound by those duties and responsibilities set out in state law and in White City's ordinances.

2.04.30 Elections to the Council and Mayor

1.      The Council shall consist of a Mayor elected at-large and four Council members, elected at-large.
        Each of the members shall have been a registered voters of the City for at least one year immediately
        preceding the general election, and have been an registered voters of the City for at least one year
        immediately preceding the general election, and elected by the qualified registered voters of the
        City.

     2. All elections to the Council shall be held on a per-seat, single member at-large basis. For the purpose
        of electing Council members, there shall be individual Seats known as Council Seat A, B, C, and D.

2.04.040 Term Of Office

Council members shall be elected at the next municipal election preceding the expiration of the term of
office of incumbents. Council members shall be elected for four-year terms pursuant to state law. Each
Council member shall hold office for the term of which elected and until a successor is elected and has
qualified as provided in state law.

2.04.050 Vacancies

When a vacancy occurs in the Council, through ineligibility, resignation or death of an incumbent or of
an officer-elect before qualifying, or refusal to act, or for any other reason, the vacancy shall be filled
as provided in state law.

2.04.060 Mayor Pro Tempore and Appointment of Staff

A.      With the consent of the Council, the Mayor shall designate a Council member at a duly noticed and
        open Council meeting to serve as the Mayor Pro Tempore to carry out all duties and responsibilities
        of the Mayor when the Mayor is absent or unable to perform his or her duties. The recorder shall

                                        Ordinance 2025-O-3 – Exhibit 1

                                                       1
      enter in the minutes of the Council meeting the appointment of a Council member as Mayor Pro
      Tempore.

B.    The Council may make such staff appointments as are necessary for the proper conduct of its
      business.

C.    The Mayor shall be responsible for the conduct of all meetings, overseeing the preparation of the
      agenda by the recorder for all meetings, and meeting the needs of the Council between meetings,
      including the providing of assistance and the gathering of information for the Council and the
      performance of duties assigned by the Council or by ordinance, the plan or by law.

D.    If the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tempore are unable to act, the remaining Council members present at a
      duly noticed open meeting shall, by an order entered in their minutes, select one of the members to
      act as Mayor temporarily.

E.    The recorder shall administer oaths to any person when necessary in the performance of official
      duties.

2.04.070 Powers And Duties of Mayor

A.    The Mayor shall:

      1. Be the chief executive officer of White City and shall have such powers and duties as are
         prescribed by state law and White City’s ordinances;

      2. Be a regular and voting member of the Council;

      3. Serve as the Chair of the Council and preside at all Council meetings;

      4. Exercise ceremonial functions on behalf of White City; and

      5. Except as otherwise limited by state law or White City ordinance, have the powers and
         duties described in Utah Code §§ 10-3b-104 and 10-3b-402 or applicable successor
         statute.

B.    The Mayor may not veto any ordinance, tax levy, or appropriation passed by the Council.

2.04.080 Powers and Duties of Council

A.    The Council shall exercise any executive or administrative power and perform or supervise the
      performance of any executive or administrative duty or function of White City that has not been
      given to the Mayor under state law and White City's ordinances.



                                    Ordinance 2025-O-3 – Exhibit 1

                                                   2
B.    The Council may by ordinance:

      1. Pursuant to state law and White City's’ ordinances, remove from the Mayor any power, duty, or
         function of the Mayor pursuant to state law, excluding the Mayor’s legislative powers, judicial
         powers, ceremonial functions, position as Chair of the Council, and any ex officio position the
         Mayor may hold;

      2. Reinstate to the Mayor any power, duty, or function previously removed under this Section;

      3. Delegate to the Mayor any executive or administrative power, duty, or function of the Council;

      4. Assign any or all Council members, including the Mayor, to supervise one or more
         administrative departments of White City;

      5. As provided in state law and this Title, appoint a City Manager or Administrator to perform
         executive and administrative duties or functions that the Council by ordinance designates to the
         City Manager or Administrator; and

      6. Dismiss a City Manager or Administrator appointed by the Council.

C.    Removing or reinstating to the Mayor a power, duty, or function under this Section requires the
      affirmative vote of the Mayor or all Council members except the Mayor.

2.04.090 Recorder-Minutes

A.    The White City recorder, or designee, shall provide copies of the minutes of all meetings of the
      Council to Council members in a manner and within the times as established by the Council and
      agreed upon by the recorder.

B.    In accordance with state law, the books, records and accounts of the Council must be maintained at
      the office of the recorder and open at all times during usual business hours for public inspection.

C.    The records and minutes of the Council must be signed by the Mayor and the recorder.

2.04.100 Council Meeting

A.    All meetings of the Council must be public, except as provided in this chapter and by state law.
      Official action may be taken by the Council only in open public meetings unless otherwise permitted
      by state law.

B.    The Council shall conduct its business in accordance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act,
      Chapter 4 of Title 52. Utah Code Annotate, 1953, as amended, as it now exists or as it may
      hereinafter be amended.

                                    Ordinance 2025-O-3 – Exhibit 1

                                                   3
C.     The Council conducts the following types of meetings:

       1. Regular Meetings;

       2. Special Meetings;

       3. Closed Meetings;

       4. Work and other Meetings; and

       5. Emergency Meetings.

D.     The Council shall give public written notice at least once each year of its annual meeting schedule
       for regular meetings. The public notice shall specify the date, time and place of such meetings.

E.     The Council, by majority vote of the members present, may direct the removal of any person who
       willfully disrupts a Council meeting to the extent that orderly conduct is seriously compromised.

F. The attorney and auditor or their designees may attend and assist the Council at all meetings but shall
   attend and assist the Council at all meetings when requested.

2.04.110 Work Meetings

A.     The Council shall conduct its regular work sessions at the hour and place designated by the Mayor.

B.     Work meetings shall be scheduled or cancelled as the public business requires and shall consist of
       discussion, review, testimony, requests and information from White City's officers and staff,
       presentations by the public, review of regular meeting agendas, preparation for regular meetings,
       and such other matters and activities as may be necessary or scheduled by the Mayor in consultation
       with the Council.

C.     Work meetings shall be open to the public in accordance with state law and public notice shall be
       given of all meetings in the same manner as required for regular meetings.

D.     A quorum of Council members is necessary to conduct work meetings.

2.04.120 Regular/Special Meetings

A.     The Council shall:

       1. By ordinance prescribe the time and place for holding its regular meeting; and

       2. Hold a regular meeting at least once each month.

                                      Ordinance 2025-O-3 – Exhibit 1

                                                    4
B.     The Mayor or two Council members may order the convening of a special meeting of the Council.

       1. Each order convening a special meeting of the Council shall:

             i.   be entered in the minutes of the Council; and

            ii.   provide at least three hours' notice of the special meeting.

       2. The recorder shall serve notice of the special meeting on each Council member who did not sign
          the order by delivering the notice personally or by leaving it at the Council member’s usual place
          of abode.

       3. The personal appearance by the Council member at a special meeting of the Council constitutes
          a waiver of the notice required under this Section.

2.04.130 Closed Meeting

 A.      A closed meeting of the Council may be held upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
         members present at an open meeting for which notice has been given in accordance with state law;
         provided, however, that a quorum must be present.

B.     No closed meeting is allowed except for matters exempted from open meetings under the Utah Open
       and Public Meetings Act, as it now exists or as it may hereinafter be amended.

C.     No official action may be taken at a closed meeting.

D.     The reason or reasons for holding a closed meeting and the vote thereon shall be entered in the
       minutes of the meeting.

2.04.140 Emergency Meetings

When, because of unforeseen circumstances, it is necessary for the Council to hold an emergency
meeting to consider matters of an emergency or urgent nature, the normal notice requirements for a
meeting may be disregarded and the best notice practicable given to the Council members and the public.
No such emergency meeting of the Council shall be held unless an attempt has been made to notify all
Council members and a majority of the Council votes in the affirmative to hold the meeting. Action may
not be taken at an emergency meeting unless a quorum is present. A record shall be kept of the means
utilized to contact the members and the number voting and names of the members voting to hold the
meeting.

2.04.150 Additional Committees


                                      Ordinance 2025-O-3 – Exhibit 1

                                                     5
A.    The Council may establish additional committees as it deems appropriate and may convene
      committee meetings at any time for the purpose of study, discussion, investigation, formal hearings
      or inquiries, workshops, training, or presentations by or responses from citizens or other interested
      persons or groups.

B.    No official action may be taken in committee meetings other than the adoption of non­binding
      recommendations to the Council.

C.    Committee meetings shall be open to the public in accordance with state law and public notice shall
      be given of all committee meetings in the same manner as required for regular meetings.

2.04.160 Agenda

A.    An agenda shall be prepared by the recorder in consultation with the Mayor or the Mayor Tempore
      in the Mayor's absence in advance of each meeting, including emergency meetings to the extent
      possible. The agenda shall be published as provided by state law at least twenty-four hours in
      advance of the meeting.

B.    Matters received from any member of the Council or the Mayor shall be placed on the agenda.
      Requests for matters to be placed upon the agenda by persons other than Council members or Mayor,
      shall be placed on the agenda at the discretion of the Mayor.

C.    The Council, for its regular, special and committee meetings, shall announce and post its agenda
      and provide notice of such meetings, in accordance with the provisions of state law, at least twenty-
      four hours prior to the convening of the Council meeting and posted on the Utah Public Notice
      Website. Written notice of the agenda and meeting shall be posted at the office of the Council or the
      meeting location, as the case may be. For an emergency meeting, public notice and notice to the
      news media shall be given as may be practical under the circumstances.

D.    The agenda may be changed by a majority vote of the Council, but no action may be taken on new
      matters introduced to the agenda unless twenty-four hours' notice has been duly given to the public
      or unless the matter is of an emergency nature, as approved by a separate majority vote of Council
      members present.

E.    All agenda items pertaining to pending or proposed actions shall be considered as proposals for
      adoption. In the absence of a motion to adopt, postpone, or table pending or proposed actions, the
      Mayor shall, upon the conclusion of discussion on the matter, declare that the proposal fails adoption
      or, at the Mayor's discretion, declare the matter to be held over for a subsequent meeting.

2.04.170 Public Hearing§.

A.    Public hearings shall be deemed to include only those hearings specifically noticed and required to
      be conducted by the Council by state law or otherwise for the purposes of providing opportunities
      for the general public to comment upon and make inquiries or presentations with respect to specific

                                     Ordinance 2025-O-3 – Exhibit 1

                                                    6
       proposals or matters under consideration by the Council including, but not limited to, planning and
       zoning, ordinances, budget hearings, hearings on the proposed issuance of bonds or debt, or other
       matters of significant public interest. The Council at its discretion may schedule public hearings for
       other matters under consideration.

B.     Public hearings may be held as part of a regular special, committee, emergency or other meeting of
       the Council. The decision to conduct a public hearing shall be made by the Council at a regular,
       special or emergency meeting.

C.     Schedules for public hearings shall be announced by the Mayor and public notice shall be given in
       the manner required for any public meeting of the Council as required by law and this chapter. The
       notice shall include the specific subject matter of the public hearing as well as the time, date and
       place thereof.

D.     At the beginning of any public hearing, the Mayor may publicly state the rules of conduct for such
       public meetings including any time limits on speakers' presentations, any requirement of submitting
       materials in writing with sufficient copies for all Council members and the recorder, and such other
       rules as may be reasonably necessary for the proper and expeditious conduct of the public hearing.

E.     Public hearings shall be opened upon the declaration of the Mayor that the Council is at that time in
       a public hearing and the Mayor shall state the specific purpose of that public hearing. Upon the
       conclusion of the public hearing and a motion duly made, seconded, and carried by a majority of
       the Council, the Mayor shall declare the public hearing concluded or continued to another date, if
       permitted by law. The Mayor shall state the conditions of any continuance.

F.     Where permitted by state law, the Council may rehear any matter decided after a public hearing
       where an aggrieved person files a written request for rehearing that includes new evidence which
       the Council determines to justify reconsideration of its decisions. A request for rehearing shall be
       filed within ten days from the date of the original decision. If a request for rehearing is granted by
       the Council, the rehearing shall follow the same procedures as the original hearing. No rehearing
       shall be allowed on any matter where a rehearing would be contrary to state law.

2.04.180 Form Of Action

The Council may take action in the form of ordinances, policies, resolutions, motions upon requests
or memorials.

A.     Ordinances.

       1. The Council, except as expressly limited by statute, shall exercise its legislative powers through
          ordinances and may adopt any ordinance to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or
          supervise any activities, business, conduct, or condition.

       2. All ordinances must be in written form before a vote is taken.

                                      Ordinance 2025-O-3 – Exhibit 1

                                                     7
     3. Any ordinance passed by the Council shall contain and be in substantially the following order
        and form:

            i   Ordinance number and date;

            ii A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the ordinance;

            iii An explanation stating the need or reason for the ordinance and summarizing its
                contents;

            iv An ordaining clause which states “The White City Council ordains as follows;”

            v   The body or subject of the ordinance;

            vi When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of the ordinance;

            vii A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance;

            viii A signature line for the Mayor;

            ix An attestation line for the recorder;

            x   The votes of the Council members;

            xi A space to indicate when the ordinance is posted pursuant to state law; and

            xii An ordinance summary if required by statute.

     4. Except in exigent circumstances, or when directed by a majority of Council members present,
        all ordinances, including ordinances relating to planning and zoning matters, shall be introduced
        in writing and read or described to the Council prior to the Council's consideration for adoption
        of the ordinance. Copies of the proposed ordinance shall be noticed and posted in accordance
        with state law, along with the agenda for the meeting at which the ordinance is to be considered.

     5. Upon adoption, each ordinance shall be signed as required within five days.

B.   Resolutions.

     1. The Council may exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, establishing fees
        and rates for municipal services, administrative policies and guidelines, and the use and
        operation of White City property.

     2. Resolutions shall be considered and adopted in those matters required by law or otherwise and

                                    Ordinance 2025-O-3 – Exhibit 1

                                                   8
           may be used for policy declarations and proposals not appropriately addressed by ordinance and
           may be used to exercise Council authority in matters of statements of policy and communication.

       3. Resolutions shall be in a form and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for
          ordinances, excluding those requirements that pertain to the posting of ordinances and ordinance
          summaries.

       4. The Council may not impose a punishment, fine, or forfeiture by resolution.

C.     Memorials.

       1. Memorials shall be adopted in the form of resolutions or motions, as may be deemed appropriate,
          and shall be used as a statement of policy to respond to or commend persons or groups for
          notable activities which have been called to the attention of the Council.

       2. Memorials may be considered and adopted at the same meeting in which they have been
          proposed and, in all events, shall be recorded in the minutes.

D.     Policies, Procedures, Rules and Regulations.

       1. Policies, procedures, rules and regulations shall be considered and adopted in those matters
          determined to be appropriate by the Council and not prohibited by statute.

       2. Policies, procedures, rules and regulations shall be presented, considered and given notice in the
          same manner as prescribed for ordinances and shall be in such form as directed by the Council.

E.     All resolutions, policies, procedures, rules, regulations and ordinances shall be numbered, recorded
       and maintained in accordance with provisions of state law.
2.04.190 Quorum

The number of Council members necessary to constitute a quorum is three.

2.04.200 Rules Of Order and Procedure-General

Procedural rules or order and procedure not specifically provided herein or by state law, or White City
ordinance, shall be regulated, interpreted and construed in accordance with the Council's Rules of Order
and Procedure as may be adopted by resolution from time to time by the Council.

2.04.201 Board Appointment Duties and Responsibilities

Pursuant to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of these ordinances, of the plan, and of the
laws of the state, the appointment and reappointment of members of boards within the jurisdiction and
under the appointment or consent power of the Council shall be as herein provided.

                                       Ordinance 2025-O-3 – Exhibit 1

                                                      9
A.   All board appointments or reappointments of Council members shall be made annually with the
     consent of a majority of the Council.

B.   The following shall apply to board appointments involving individuals who are not members of the
     Council:

     1. Boards whose members hold terms of three years or less, board members may be reappointed to
        a consecutive term on their respective boards with the consent of a majority of the Council; and

     2. For boards whose members hold terms of longer than three years, no board member shall be
        reappointed to a consecutive term on the same board unless, for good cause shown and to prevent
        significant disruption of current board activities, the Council approves such reappointment.

     3. The restrictions upon the reappointment of board members, as provided under this section, shall
        be limited to the extent that this section may be in direct conflict with federal or state law and
        where the appointment of board members is set out by or limited under the laws of the United
        States or the state of Utah.

C.   When representing White City or the Council on any board or similar organization, Council
     members shall vote according to the will of the Council on those matters for which the Council has
     taken an official position. In the absence of an official position by the Council, Council members
     shall exercise their best judgment to determine how best to vote in accordance with the best interests
     of White City.




                                    Ordinance 2025-O-3 – Exhibit 1

                                                  10
