                                       EXHIBIT A

19.46.100 Infrastructure and Public Improvements
The minimum requirements for public improvements shall be a combination of
standards set forth in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places and applicable
standards set forth in this Title or adopted in White City’s the municipality’s Master
Transportation Plan.
A. Off-Site Improvements Required.
   1. Off-Site Improvements. Subject to the essential link and rough proportionality
      tests for exactions in Utah Code Section 10-9a-508, an applicant for a building or
      land use permit for a dwelling, or a commercial or industrial use shall provide
      curb, gutter, sidewalk, street, and urban hydrology improvements along the entire
      property line which abuts any public road or street in cases where it does not
      exist at municipal standards.
   2. Access to public right of ways. New and reconstructed vehicular entrances to the
      property shall be provided as required in Section 14.12.110. Height, location,
      structural specifications, maximum and minimum cut radii and minimum roadway
      approach angles to the centerline of the street are subject to the approval of the
      Municipal Engineering Division.
   3. Exceptions.
       a. The planning commission may grant exception to the installation of the
          sidewalk in industrial areas where the planning commission determines that
          the sidewalk is not necessary to serve the public need, and the elimination of
          the sidewalk does not jeopardize the public health, safety or welfare.
       b. The planning commission may grant exception to the installation of curb,
          gutter and sidewalk in rural or estate areas where topographic or other
          exceptional conditions exist, provided that the public health, safety and
          welfare is preserved.
       c. The planning commission may require the applicant to sign a delay
          agreement binding the current and future property owner to pay for their
          share of any required improvements that are installed by White City within 10
          years of the waiver.
A.B.   Acceptance of Public Streets.
   1. Street lighting shall either be chosen from the municipality’s approved streetlight
      list or installed to match a theme set by developments within the zone or
      neighborhood.
   2. Street lighting shall be installed in conformance with Title 18.
   3. Street Signs and Markers. Standard street name signs shall be installed at one
      corner of all street intersections. The size, design, materials, location, fabrication,
      installation, and maintenance of the signs and poles within the public right of way
      and elsewhere shall be in accordance with the Utah Department of
      Transportation, the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
      Highways (MUTCD), or the municipality’s adopted policies, as applicable.
B.C.   Private Streets.
   1. Private streets or roads shall be designed and constructed to meet or exceed the
      public street standards set forth in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public
      Places, as applicable.
       a. Private streets or roads are allowed in the following circumstances:
          (1) If shown on an approved development plan as private streets;
          (2) For multi-family developments; or
          (3) For residential subdivisions where the street is equally shared between
              properties. Such streets shall have a maintenance and operations plan
              included in the declaration of covenants, conditions, and restrictions for
              the subdivision.
C.D. Ingress and Egress Requirements. No building with human occupiable space
   may be erected or enlarged on a parcel in any zone unless such parcel abuts upon
   or has access to a publicly accepted and maintained street, a private driveway
   leading to an approved public street, a private road, or a public or private alley.
D.E. Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility. In all zones which require a front yard, no
   obstruction to view in excess of three feet (3’) in height may be placed on any corner
   lot within a triangular area formed by the street property lines or right-of-way lines
   and a line connecting them at points forty feet (40’) from the intersection of the street
   lines, except mature trees which are located in the clear sight triangle shall be
   pruned to a height of at least seven feet (7') above the established sidewalk or street
   elevation.
              Figure 19.46.100 A: Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility.
E.F. Intersecting Streets and Driveways. In all zones, no view obstruction, including a
   sight-obscuring fence, wall, sign, other similar structures, and landscaping which
   exceeds three feet (3’) in height shall be placed within a triangular area formed by a
   diagonal line connecting lines located at the curb line or sidewalk line and driveway
   line ten feet (10’) from the projected intersection of such lines.
              Figure 19.46.100 B: Intersecting Streets and Driveways.




F.G. Acceptance of Private Streets. Prior to acceptance by the municipality, any
   private street, or any driveway allowed for access with a development that is not
   constructed and maintained to the municipality’s adopted street standards shall be
   improved to the municipality’s adopted street standards.
G.H. Driveways. A driveway shall be allowed for vehicular access according to the
   standards set forth in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places, and Chapter
   19.48, Parking and Mobility.
H.I.   Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility.
   1. Each lot shall have pedestrian walkways and sidewalks that provide connections
      between the building entrances, neighboring building entrances, parking areas,
      open space, and public trail. Such systems shall be designed to connect with all
      elements within the development, adjacent areas, and transit stops and can
      include sidewalks along public or private streets, wide outside travel lanes, bike
      lanes on roadways, and walkways and trails in alternative locations as
      appropriate. Design, location, dimensions, dedications, easements, and
      reservations shall conform to applicable municipal policies and standards for
      sidewalks, bicycle routes, and trails.
   2. Walkways and trails shall be designed to maximize the safety of users and the
      security of adjoining properties with respect to location, visibility, and
      landscaping.
   3. Bicycle Facilities. Bicycle facilities shall be provided in accordance with the
      standards set forth in Chapter 19.48, Parking and Mobility.
          SUMMARY OF WHITE CITY ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-04

On May 1, 2025, the White City Council Enacted Ordinance No. 2025-O-04, amending
title 19 to clarify when infrastructure and public improvements must be installed by a
developer subject to the limitations on exactions in Utah code.

A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-04 is available in the office of the MSD
Recorder, 860 Levoy Dr., Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah.
