WHITE CITY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-06
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.56 OF THE WHITE CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING COMMUNITY COUNCILS

WHEREAS, White City is a municipality incorporated under the laws of the State of Utah
pursuant to Utah Code § 10-1-104(5)(c); and
WHEREAS, in June 2017, Chapter 2.56 — Community Council was created by the White City
Metro Township Council; and
WHEREAS, the Council desires to amend Chapter 2.56 of the White City Municipal Code
regarding Community Council.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE WHITE CITY COUNCIL AS
FOLLOWS:

1. The White City Council desires to amend Chapter 2.56 of the White City Municipal
Code as outlined in Attachment “A”.

P This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication on the City and State Public
Notice Website.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the White City Council, this 5th day of December, 2024.

/ A } . - A
Paulina F. Flint, Mayor
ATTEST:
F ark Wp APPROVED AS TO FORM:
AY Mik WiAey
Nicole Smedley, Clerk/AR rors” | gs Wd
VOTING PAUL H. ASHTON
Mayor Flint voting Ave, CITY ATTORNEY
Council Member Cardenaz voting
Council Member Shelton voting UD)
Council Member Huish voting p
Council Member Price voting LU,
(

SUMMARY OF
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-06
On the 5" day of December, 2024, the White City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2024-
0-06, amending Chapter 2.56 of the White City Municipal code regarding Community Councils.
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2024-O-06 is available in the office of the Greater Salt Lake
Municipal Services District, 2001 South State Street, N3-600, Salt Lake City, Utah.

“ATTACHMENT A”
Chapter 2.56 -COMMUNITY COUNCILS
2.56.010 Purpose
2.56.020 Establishment
2.56.030 Community Councils; Representation
2.56.040 Community Councils; Participation
2.56.050 Community Council Meetings
2.56.060 Community Councils; Appointment of Members
2.56.070 Community Councils; Municipal Services Recommendations
2.56.080 Community Councils; Planning and Zoning Information to the Community
Council
2.56.090 Budget
2.56.100 City Council; Participation
2.56.110 Volunteer Status; Indemnification
2.56.010 — Purpose.

The purpose of establishing and recognizing community councils is to provide a
mechanism by which residents of the City may identify community service needs and assist the
City in facilitating those initiatives. Volunteer community councils are an effective way for cities
to maximize the benefits of volunteer service for providing needed events and programming to
the residents of the City.

2.56.020 — Establishment

Community councils are created by private citizens as private corporations, associations
or otherwise, and are not created by the city. Privately created community councils may be
recognized by the city as provided in this chapter.

2.56.030 — Community Councils; Representation.

A. The citizens may choose to create a community council for the purpose of serving the
community and providing volunteer service. All members of the community councils
shall serve without compensation. Any resident of White City may serve on such
community council. Vacancies on a community council shall be filled in accordance
with the community council’s bylaws. All community council meetings shall be open to
the public.

B. All community council bylaws, articles of incorporation, meetings, activities, elections,
and other functions shall abide by the minimum requirements of this chapter. The
community council will not be entitled to the various services, benefits, and status as set
out herein.

2.56.040 — Community Councils; Participation.

The citizens may by choice decline to create a community council under the terms of this
chapter.

2.56.050 — Community Council Meetings.

Community councils shall conduct open and public meetings and shall permit interested
persons to attend and participate in those meetings in accordance with applicable council bylaws
and regulations.

2.56.060 — Community Councils; Appointment of Members.

A. Members of the community council shall be appointed to the council as determined
by the community council’s bylaws. The community council must appoint a
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, a Treasurer, and a Secretary. These appointed
members of the community council are responsible for the effective operation of the
community council.

B. Each community council member must submit a completed conflict of interest form
and ethics form to the city council no later than January 31‘ of each year.

2.56.070 ~ Budget.

A. The city council may appropriate funds annually for the community councils upon
receipt of a request detailing the amount of funds requested and proposed use of said
funds as related to the benefit the city will receive in return for the appropriated
funds. The community council shall submit a letter requesting funding for the current
year no later than January 31°.

B. An accounting of the use of any appropriated funds expended during the previous
year shall be provided to the city council by January 31° of each year in a form
approved by the city council.

C. The community council shall be subject to an audit of appropriated funds by the city
each year. The city council shall determine the financial manager to conduct the
financial audit.

2.56.080 — City Council participation.

A. The city council shall schedule at least one meeting annually with the community
council for the purpose of receiving recommendations on policy, budget and other
priorities established by the community council.

B. Members of the city council may serve on sub-committees; however, members of the
city council may not serve on the community council.

2.56.090 — Volunteer Status — Indemnification.

Community council members shall be considered volunteers to the city and not
employees, officials, or officers of the city. Community council members shall be defended and
indemnified by the city council pursuant to the provisions of the Utah Governmental Immunity
Act in any civil action which may arise within the course and scope of performance of their
duties under this chapter.
