ATTACHMENT “B”
POLICY #2 — PURCHASING, CONTRACTING AND PROCUREMENT

POLICY # 2 — PURCHASING, CONTRACTING AND PROCUREMENT
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1. The underlying purposes of this policy are:

a. To ensure fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to, or do conduct
business with the Metro Township.

b. To provide for the greatest possible economy in Metro Township procurement
activities.

c. To foster effective broad-based competition within the free enterprise system to
ensure that the Township will receive the best possible service or product at the
lowest possible price

2. Compliance - Exemptions from this policy.

a. This policy shall not prevent the Metro Township from complying with the terms and
conditions of any grant, gift, or bequest that is otherwise consistent with law.

b. When procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance funds, the Metro
Township shall comply with applicable federal law and regulations.

3. Definitions

a. “Business” means any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship, joint
stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.

b. “Change order” means a written order signed by the purchasing agent, directing the
contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses of the
contract authorize the purchasing agent to order without the consent of the contractor
or any written alteration in specifications, delivery point, rate of delivery, period of
performance, price, quantity, or other provisions of any contract accomplished by
mutual action of the parties to the contract.

c. “Contract” means any Metro Township agreement for the procurement or disposal of
supplies, services, or construction.

d. “Invitation for bids” means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting bids.

e. “Person” means any business, individual, union, committee, club, other organization,
or group of individuals.

f. “Procurement” means buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with an option to
purchase, or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services, or construction.

g. “Purchasing agent” means the person duly authorized by the Metro Township
Council to enter into and administer contracts and make written determinations with
respect thereto.

h. “Purchase description” means the words used in a solicitation to describe the
supplies, services or construction to be purchased, and includes specifications
attached to or made a part of the solicitation.

i. “Request for proposals” means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting proposals.

ARTICLE 2

OFFICE OF THE PURCHASING AGENT
The Council shall appoint a Purchasing Agent. The Purchasing Agent shall be

responsible to make procurements, solicit bids and proposals, enter into and administer contracts,
and make written determinations for the Metro Township.

ARTICLE 3

SOURCE SELECTION AND CONTRACT FORMATION - GENERAL PROVISIONS

1. Procurements not requiring sealed bids.

a. Procurements costing less than $10,000 in total, shall not require bids of any type.
(Purchases shall not be artificially divided so as to constitute a small purchase under
this section.)

b. Procurements costing more than $10,000 but less than $20,000 in total, shall require 2
telephone bids.

c. Purchases made through the cooperative purchasing contracts administered by the
State Division of Purchasing or other governmental entity which has applied its
purchasing and procurement policies.

d. Purchases made from a single-source provider.

e. Purchases required during an emergency, i.e., an eminent threat to the public’s health,
welfare, or safety. However, as much competition as practical should be obtained;
and, such purchases should be limited to amounts necessary to the resolution of the
emergency.

2. Purchases requiring sealed bids.

a. Contracts shall be awarded by competitive sealed bidding except as otherwise
provided by this policy.

b. An invitation for bids shall be issued when a contract is to be awarded by competitive
sealed bidding. The invitation shall include a purchase description and all contractual
terms and conditions applicable to the procurement. Public notice of the invitation for
bids shall be given at least 10 days prior to the date set forth therein for the opening of
bids. The notice may include publication in a newspaper of general circulation, or
posting on an approved public notice website.

c. Any procurement in excess of $20,000 shall require a legal notice in a local
newspaper of general circulation, or posting on an approved public notice website.

d. Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more witnesses at the time and
place designated in the invitations for bids. The amount of each bid and any other
relevant information, together with the name of each bidder, shall be recorded. The
record and each bid shall be open to public inspection.

e. Bids shall be unconditionally accepted without alternation or correction, except as
authorized in this policy. Bids shall be evaluated based on the requirements set forth
in the invitation for bids.

f. Correction or withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids before or after award, or
cancellation of awards or contracts based on such bid mistakes, shall be permitted.
After bid opening no changes in bid prices or other provisions of bids prejudicial to
the interest of the Metro Township of fair competition shall be permitted. All
decisions to permit the correction or withdrawal of bids or to cancel awards or
contracts based on bid mistakes shall be supported by a written determination made
by the purchasing agent.

g. The contract shall be awarded with reasonable promptness, by written notice, to the
lowest bidder whose bid meets the requirements and criteria set forth in the invitation
for bids.

h. The Metro Township shall follow the procedures contained in Utah Code 11-39-101
et seq. for the letting of contracts for the construction of building improvements or
public works projects as defined therein and any provision of this policy that conflicts
with the provisions of Utah Code 11-39-101 et seq. shall not apply to the letting of
contracts covered by this chapter of state law.

3. Cancellation and rejection of bids.

An invitation for bids, a request for proposals, or other solicitations may be canceled, or any
or all bids or proposals may be rejected, in whole or in part, as may be specified in the
solicitation, when it is in the best interests of the Metro Township. The reasons shall be made
part of the contract file.

4. Use of competitive sealed proposals in lieu of bids (Requests for Proposals).

When the purchasing agent determines in writing that the use of competitive sealed bidding
is either not practicable or not advantageous to the Metro Township, a contract may be entered
into by competitive sealed proposals. Competitive sealed proposals are most appropriately used
for professional service-type contracts.

a. Proposals shall be solicited through a request for proposals. Public notice of the
request for proposals shall be given at least 10 days prior to the advertised date of the
opening of the proposals.

b. Proposals shall be opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents to competing offerors
during the process of negotiation. A register of proposals shall be prepared and shall
be open for public inspection after contract award.

c. The request for proposals shall state the relative importance of price and other
evaluating factors.

d. Offerors shall be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to any opportunity
for discussion and revision of proposals, and revisions may be permitted after
submissions and prior to award for the purpose of obtaining best and final offers. In
conduction discussions, there shall be no disclosure of any information derived from
proposals submitted by competing offerors.

e. Award shall be made to the person whose proposal is determined, in writing, to be the
most advantageous to the Metro Township, taking into consideration price and the
evaluation factors set forth in the request for proposals. No other factors or criteria

shall be used in the evaluation. The contract file shall contain the basis on which the
award is made.
5. Architect-Engineer services are qualification-based procurements.

Requests for such services should be publicly announced. Contracts should be negotiated by
the Metro Township based on demonstrated competence at fair and reasonable prices.

6. Determination of non-responsibility of bidder.

Determination of non-responsibility of a bidder or offeror shall be made in writing. The
unreasonable failure of a bidder or offeror to promptly supply information in connection with an
inquiry with respect to responsibility may be grounds for a determination of non-responsibility
with respect to the bidder or offeror. Information furnished by a bidder or offeror pursuant to this
section shall not be disclosed outside of the purchasing division without prior written consent by
the bidder or offeror.

7. Cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost contracts prohibited.

Subject to the limitations of this section, any type of contract which will promote the best
interests of the Metro Township may be used, provided that the use of a cost-plus-a-percentage-
of-cost contract is prohibited. A cost-reimbursement contract may be used only when a
determination is made in writing that such contract is likely to be less costly to the Metro
Township than any other type or that it is impracticable to obtain the supplies, services, or
construction, required except under such a contract.

ARTICLE 4
APPEALS

1. Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror, or contractor who is aggrieved in connection with
the solicitation or award of a contract may appeal to the purchasing agent. An appeal shall be
submitted in writing within 5 working days after the aggrieved person knows or should have
known of the facts.

2. The purchasing agent shall promptly issue a written decision regarding any appeal, if it is not
settled by a mutual agreement. The decision shall state the reasons for the action taken and
inform the protestor, contractor, or prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the
Council.

3. The Council shall be the final appeal on the Metro Township level.

ARTICLE 5
ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING

1. No person involved in making procurement decisions may have personal investments in any
business entity which will create a substantial conflict between their private interests and
their public duties.

2. Any person involved in making procurement decisions is guilty of a felony if the person asks,
receives, or offers to receive any emolument, gratuity, contribution, loan, or reward, or any
promise thereof, either for the person s own use or the use or benefit of any other person or
organization from any person or organization interested in selling to the Metro Township.
