                                     WHITE CITY, UTAH
                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-06

 AN ORDINANCE OF THE WHITE CITY COUNCIL ENACTING SECTION 15.08.011
 OF THE WHITE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO ADOPT THE 2006 EDITION OF THE
         INTERNATIONAL WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
        WHEREAS, in accordance with H.B. 48, effective January 1, 2026, municipalities are
encouraged to adopt the 2006 Edition of the Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code (“UWUIC”)
and a corresponding map depicting those areas within their boundaries that are subject to UWUIC;
and
       WHEREAS, adoption of the 2006 edition of the International Wildland-Urban Interface
Code as currently amended by the Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands, regulating and
governing the mitigation of hazard to life and property from the intrusion of fire from wildland
exposures, fire from adjacent structures and prevention of structure fires from spreading to
wildland fuels in White City; and
       WHEREAS, the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the City to adopt
the 2006 edition of the International Wildland-Urban Interface Code;
    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE WHITE CITY
COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:
        1.      International Wildland-Urban Interface Code, 2006 edition, including adopted
Appendix Chapters, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted
as the Wildland- Urban Interface Code of White City, in the State of Utah for regulating and
governing the mitigation of hazard to life and property from the intrusion of fire from wildland
exposures, fire from adjacent structures and prevention of structure fires from spreading to
wildland fuels as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Wildland- Urban Interface Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this ordinance, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in Section 2 of this ordinance.
       2.      Section 15.08.011 of the White City Municipal Code is enacted to read as
follows:
       15.08.011 2006 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code

       The 2006 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code along with any
       amendments shall apply to those areas within the City that the Council designates
       as wildland-urban interface areas.
       3.      Severability: If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this ordinance, or specific
application of this ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full
force and effect.
        4.       That nothing in this ordinance or in the Wildland-Urban Interface Code hereby
adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any court, or any rights
acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing, under any
act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in Section 2 of this ordinance; nor shall any just or
legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this ordinance.
        5.      Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and directed
to take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law,
including but not limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b)
to finalize and post the ordinance to MuniCode, including but not limited to making non-
substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.
       6.      Effective Date: This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its
posting.
            ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the White City Council on
this 4th day of December 2025.
                                                             WHITE CITY



                                                             By: Paulina Flint, Mayor

 ATTEST:
                                                          Approved by:


                                                          Paul Ashton, Attorney
 Rori L. Andreason, Administrator/Recorder

Voting:
Mayor Flint voting
Council member Huish voting
Council member Price voting
Council member Shelton voting
Council member Cardenaz voting

(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code §10-3-
711:


                                                 2
                               SUMMARY OF WHITE CITY
                               ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-06

On December 4, 2025, the White City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-O-06 to enact
Chapter 15.08.011 of the White City Municipal Code in accordance with H.B. 48.



 Rori L. Andreason, Administrator/Recorder

A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-06 is available in the office of the White City Recorder,
860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah 84123.




                                                3
