2/7\14
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 19-02-02 DATE: February 7, 2019
A RESOLUTION OF THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
APPROVING THE SECOND AMENDED CONTRACT BETWEEN WHITE CITY
AND GOVERNMENT CONSULTANTS LLC TO PERFORM MUNICIPAL
ADMINISTRATION SERVICES FOR WHITE CITY
RECITALS
A. The White City Metro Township (“White City”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah Code §§
10-2a-401 et seg.
B. The White City Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal legislative body for
White City pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-501.
C. Government Consultants LLC (the COMPANY) is a contracted service provider to White City
for certain municipal administration services.
D. On December 11, 2018 the Company tendered White City a 30-Day Notice to Discontinue
Services.

E. After discussions between the company, White City’s attorney and others, it was determined a
mutual benefit to amend the contract between the company and White City so the company
would continue its services to White City.

F. The attached second amended contract (Attachment “A”) reflects those changes.

RESOLUTION
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Council hereby approves the second amended contract
between White City and Government Consultants LLC, and authorizes the Mayor to sign the
contract to affect the same.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in White City, Salt Lake County, Utah this day of
FEBRUARY, 2019.
FOR THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP:
ATTEST PAULINA F. FLINT, MAYOR
wewe D vad APPROVED AS TO FORM:

SHERRIE SWENSEN

SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK

METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER / au Hl

PAUL H. ASHTON
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY

VOTING:
COUNCILMEMBER CUTLER an 0Sey }
COUNCILMEMBER DICKERSON AND
MAYOR ELINT hPL
COUNCILMEMBER PERRY amine
COUNCILMEMBER PRICE PA

WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP CONTRACT NO.
SECOND AMENDED AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
And
GOVERNMENT CONSULTANTS LLC

THIS AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is made and entered into as of the last date set
forth on the signature page(s), whether signed in counterparts or otherwise, with an effective date
of January 1, 2019, by and between White City Metro Township, a political subdivision of the
State of Utah (the “Metro Township”), and Government Consultants LLC, dba Gregory Schulz
MPA, located at 8676 W Blackgum Ct, Magna, Utah, 84044 (the “Company”). The Metro
Township and Company are sometimes referred to herein as the Parties.

NOW, THEREFORE, in exchange for valuable consideration, including without
limitations, the mutual covenants, agreements and representations contained in this Agreement,
the receipt of which is acknowledged, Metro Township and Company, with the intent to be
legally bound, covenant and agree as follows:

1. SERVICES.

Under the direction of the Metro Township Council, and with the assistance of the Metro
Township’s legal counsel and other service providers, the Company will undertake and perform
the administrative and legislative work needed on behalf of the Metro Township to fulfill the
Metro Township’s governance requirements, as more fully set forth in Attachment “A” attached
hereto.

2. CONSIDERATION.
A. Monthly Rate. The Metro Township agrees to pay the Company for the services
described herein at the following rate:
Government Consultants LLC -- $2,000.00 per month.

B. Costs. All reasonable costs for copying, travel, research and other necessary items will
be billed at the usual rate. Mileage reimbursement will be paid for use of Company’s
vehicle, at no more than the accepted rate set by the IRS, for travel reasonably required
for his work on behalf of the Metro Township. The Company’s Representative will
consult the Metro Township Chair prior to incurring any extraordinary costs in his
performance under this Agreement. If performance under this Agreement requires
Company to incur extraordinary costs, the parties will agree to the amount of those costs
prior to his incurring the costs.

C. Billing. The Company agrees to submit monthly a billing statement of all time spent on
behalf of the Metro Township and costs incurred under this Agreement. The monthly
billing will detail the date and nature of the services rendered. The Metro Township will
pay the billing statement upon receipt of the statement from the Company.

D. Annual Budget Limitation. For the purposes of Metro Township budgeting and fiscal
control, the Company agrees that its billable services and costs shall not exceed $26,000
per calendar year. If as a result of additional work needed it becomes clear the budget
threshold shall be exceeded, the Company shall notify the Metro Township of the
situation and shall not perform such work until the situation is resolved. At the time of
the notification the Metro Township may budget, or make available through budget
transfers, additional funds for this Agreement, terminate the Agreement as provided
below, or take such other action, as it deems appropriate.

3. TERM.

This Agreement shall have a term of three (3) years, unless otherwise terminated as set forth
below, with an option to renew for an additional two years upon written agreement of both the
Metro Township and Company.

4. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR, TAXES OTHER WORK.

The relationship of Metro Township and Company under this Agreement shall be that of an
independent contractor status. Each party shall have the entire responsibility to discharge all of
the obligations of an independent contractor under federal, state, and local law, including but not

limited to, those obligations relating to employee supervision, benefits and wages; taxes;
unemployment compensation and insurance; social security; worker's compensation; disability
pensions and tax withholdings, including the filing of all returns and reports and the payment of
all taxes, assessments and contributions and other sums required of an independent contractor.
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to create the relationship between Metro
Township and Company of employer and employee, partner or joint-ventures. The parties agree
that Company’s obligations under this Agreement are solely to the Metro Township. This
Agreement shall not confer any rights to third parties, including the MSD or County, unless
otherwise agreed to by the parties.

The Company may be retained to represent other Metro Townships, or other governmental
entities. To the extent work performed mutually benefits all such entities the cost for services
will determined in the sole discretion of the Company. Although the Company does not see any
direct conflicts in its work for different entities, any conflicts that might exist, either in the
present, or future, are hereby waived by the Metro Township unless notice to the contrary is
given in writing to the Company, in which event the Company will defer to legal counsel and
recuse on the issue under conflict until it is resolved or waived.

5. INDEMNIFICATION.

Except to the extent paid in settlement from any applicable insurance policies, and to the
extent permitted by applicable law, each Party agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the other
Party, against any and all claims, losses, damages, liabilities, penalties, punitive damages,
expenses, reasonable legal fees and costs of any kind or amount whatsoever, which result from
or arise out of any act or omission of the indemnifying party that occurs in connection with this
Agreement. This indemnification will survive the termination of this Agreement.

6. GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY AND INSURANCE.

The Metro Township is a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah, subject to the
Governmental Immunity Act of Utah ("Act"), Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-7-101, et. seq. (1953, as
amended). The Parties agree that Metro Township shall only be liable within the parameters of

the Act. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed in any way, to modify the limits
of liability set forth in that Act or the basis for liability as established in the Act. To the extent
allowed by law or contract, the Metro Township will covers the Company for all work product
created and work duties performed on behalf of, and under the direction of the Metro Township
under the Act or general liability insurance policies.

7. NON-FUNDING CLAUSE.

Metro Township shall pay for the services provided by the Company under this Agreement,
starting on the effective date of the Agreement. This Agreement shall create no obligation on the
Metro Township as to succeeding fiscal years and shall terminate and become null and void on
the last day of the fiscal year for which funds were budgeted and appropriated, except as to those
portions of payments agreed upon for which funds were appropriated and budgeted. Said
termination shall not be construed as a breach of this Agreement or any event of default under
this Agreement and said termination shall be without penalty, whatsoever, and no right of action
for damages or other relief shall accrue to the benefit of the Company, its successors, or its
assigns, as to this Agreement, or any portion thereof, which may terminate and become null and

void. If Metro Township does not appropriate funds for a succeeding fiscal year to fund
performance under this Agreement, the Metro Township shall promptly notify Company of said
non-funding and the termination of this Agreement, and in no event, later than 30 days prior to
the expiration of the fiscal year for which funds were appropriated.

8. AGENCY.

No agent, employee or servant of the Company or Metro Township is or shall be deemed to
be an employee, agent or servant of the other party. None of the benefits provided by each party
to its employees, including but not limited to worker's compensation insurance, health insurance
and unemployment insurance, are available to the employees, agents, or servants of the other
party. The Company and Metro Township shall each be solely and entirely responsible for its
acts and for the acts of its agents, employees, and servants during the performance of this
Agreement. Company and Metro Township shall each make all commercially reasonable efforts

to inform all persons with whom they are involved in connection with this Agreement to be
aware that the Company is an independent contractor.
9. NO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE INTEREST.

It is understood and agreed that no officer or employee of the Metro Township has or shall
have any pecuniary interest, direct or indirect, in this Agreement or the proceeds resulting from
the performance of this Agreement. No officer or employee of the Company or any member of
his family shall serve on any Metro Township board or committee or hold any such position
which either by rule, practice, or action nominates, recommends, or supervises Company’s
operations, or authorizes funding or payments to the Company.

10. ETHICAL STANDARDS.

The Company represents that it has not: (a) provided an illegal gift or payoff to any Metro
Township, officer or employee, or former Metro Township officer or employee, or to any
relative or business entity of a Metro Township officer or employee, or relative or business entity
of a former Metro Township officer or employee; (b) retained any person to solicit or secure this
contract upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or
contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies established for
the purpose of securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical standards set forth in State
statute or Metro Township adopted Ethics Code Chapter 2.07; or (d) knowingly influenced, and
hereby promises that it will not knowingly influence, any Metro Township officer or employee
or former Metro Township officer or employee to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in
State statute or Metro Township ordinances.

. 11. CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS.

The Metro Township adopted campaign finance disclosure ordinance limits campaign
contributions by contractors to Metro Township candidates. The Company acknowledges and
understands those limitations on campaign contributions mean that any person, business,

corporation or other entity that enters into a contract or is engaged in a contract with the Metro
Township is prohibited from making campaigning contributions in excess of $100.00 to Metro
Township candidates during the term of the contact and during a single election cycle as defined
in the ordinance. The Company further acknowledges that violation of those provisions
governing campaign contributions may result in criminal sanctions as well as termination of this
Agreement.

12. PUBLIC FUNDS AND PUBLIC MONIES.

Definitions: "Public funds" and "public monies" mean monies, funds, and accounts,
regardless of the source from which they are derived, that are owned, held, or administered by
the state or any of its boards, commissions, institutions, departments, divisions, agencies,
bureaus, laboratories, or other similar instrumentalities, or any county, city, school district,
political subdivision, or other public body. The terms also include monies, funds or accounts that
have been transferred by any of the aforementioned public entities to a private contract provider
for public programs or services. Said funds shall maintain the nature of “public funds" while in
the Company’s possession. The Company, as recipient of "public funds" and "public monies"
pursuant to this and other contracts related hereto, expressly understands that he is obligated to
receive, keep safe, transfer, disburse and use these "public funds" and "public monies" as
authorized by law and this Agreement for the provision of services to the Metro Township. The
Company understands that he may be criminally liable for misuse of public funds or monies. The

Company expressly understands that Metro Township may monitor the expenditure of public
funds by the Company. The Company expressly understands that Metro Township may withhold
funds or require repayment of funds from the Company for contract noncompliance, failure to
comply with directives regarding the use of public funds, or for misuse of public funds or
monies.

13. TERMINATION.

‘A. Termination for Default. Metro Township may terminate this Agreement for an "Event
of Default" as defined, upon written notice from Metro Township to Company.

B. Termination by Company for Default. The Company may terminate this Agreement for
an Event of Default upon written notice from Attorney to Metro Township.

C. Event of Default. As used in this Agreement, the term "Event of Default" means (a) a
party fails to make any payment hereunder when the same becomes due and such failure
continues for a period of thirty (30) days after written notice to the party filling to make
such payment; (b) a party hereto fails to perform any of its material obligations and such
failure continues for a period of thirty (30) days after written notice to such defaulting
party; or (c) any material representation or warranty of a party contained in this
Agreement proves to be untrue or incorrect in any material respect when made.

D. Force Majeure. Neither party shall be liable for a failure to perform any excess costs if
the failure to perform arises from causes beyond the control and without the fault or
negligence of that party, e.g., acts of God, fires, floods, strikes, or unusually severe
weather. If such condition continues for a period in excess of 60 days, Company or Metro
Township shall have the right to terminate this Agreement without liability or penalty
effective upon written notice to the other party.

E. No Limitation of Rights. The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto are in addition to
any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this Agreement. The Parties
agree that the waiver of any breach of this Agreement by either party shall in no event
constitute a waiver as to any future breach.

F. Termination for Convenience. Each Party reserves the right to terminate this Agreement,
in whole or in part, at any time during the Term or any Additional Terms whenever either
determine, in their discretion that it is in their interest to do so. If a party elects to exercise
this right, they shall provide written notice to the other party at least thirty (30) days prior
to the date of termination for convenience. The parties agree termination for convenience
will not be deemed a termination for default nor will it entitle either party to any rights or
remedies provided by law or this Agreement for breach of contract or any other claim or
cause of action.

The Parties agree that the waiver of any breach of this Agreement by either party shall in no

event constitute a waiver as to any future breach.

14. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.

Each party agrees to comply with all federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations in the
performance of its duties and obligations under this Agreement. Any violation by Company of
applicable law, rule or regulation, shall constitute an event of default under this Agreement and
Company shall be liable for and hold the Metro Township harmless and defend the Metro
Township from and against any and all liability arising out of or connected with the violation, to
include all attorney fees and costs incurred by the Metro Township as a result of the violation.
15. NON-DISCRIMINATION.

Company, and all persons acting on its behalf, agree that they shall comply with all federal,
state and County laws, rules ordinance and regulations governing discrimination and they shall
not discriminate in the engagement or employment of any professional person or any other
person qualified to perform the services required under this Agreement.

16. LABOR REGULATIONS AND REOUIREMENTS.
The Company agrees to comply with all applicable provisions of Title 34 of the Utah Code,
and with all applicable federal, state and local labor laws. The Company shall indemnify and
hold the Metro Township harmless from and against any and all claims for liability arising out of
any violation of this paragraph or the laws referenced by Company, its agents or employees.
17. CONFIDENTIALITY.

Company shall hold all information provided to it by Metro Township for the purposes of
performance of this Agreement, whether provided in written or other form, in strict confidence,
shall make no use thereof other than for its representation of the Metro Township under this
Agreement, and shall not release any of said information to any third party, who is not involved

in the performance of services under the Agreement, or to any representative of the news media
without prior written consent of Metro Township.
18. GOVERNMENT RECORDS ACCESS MANAGEMENT ACT.

Company acknowledges that Metro Township is a governmental entity subject to the Utah
Government Records Access Management Act ("“GRAMA"), Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-2-101, et
seq. As a result, Metro Township is required to disclose certain information and materials to the
public, upon request. The Company agrees to timely refer all requests for documents, materials
and data in its possession relating to this Agreement and its performance to the Chair of the
Metro Township with notice also being provided to legal counsel for the township, if any.

19. INTERPRETATION.

Metro Township and Company agree that where possible, each provision of this Agreement
shall be interpreted in such a manner as to be consistent and valid under applicable law; but if
any provision of this Agreement shall be invalid, prohibited or unenforceable under applicable
law, such provision shall be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity or prohibition, without
invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement.

20. ASSIGNMENT.

Company shall not assign or transfer its duties of performance nor its rights to compensation

under this Agreement, without the prior written approval of Metro Township.
"21. SUBCONTRACTING.

Company agrees that it shall not subcontract to provide any of the services under this,
Agreement or execute performance of its obligations under this Agreement without prior
expressed and written consent of Metro Township.

22. NOTICES.

All notices to be given under this Agreement shall be made in writing and shall be deemed
given upon personal delivery, upon the next business day immediately following the day sent if
sent by overnight express carrier, or upon the third business day following the day sent if sent
postage prepaid by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the Parties at the
following addresses (or to such other address or addresses as shall be specified in any notice
given):

Metro Township: Paulina F. Flint, Mayor
White City Metro Township
10467 S Carnation Dr
White City, UT 84094

Company: Gregory L. Schulz
Government Consultants LLC
8676 W Blackgum Ct
Magna, UT 84044

23. TIME.

The Parties stipulate that time is of the essence in the performance of this Agreement. The
time set forth for performance in this Agreement shall be strictly followed and any default in
performance according to the times required may be a default of this Agreement and be a cause
for termination of this Agreement and pursuit of any remedy allowed by this Agreement and by
law.

24. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.

Metro Township and Company acknowledge and agree that this Agreement constitutes the
entire integrated understanding between the parties, and that there are no other terms, conditions,
representations or understanding, whether written or oral, concerning the rights and obligations
of the Parties to this Agreement except as set forth in this Agreement, and any prior agreements,

representations or understandings by and between the parties from the effective date of this
Agreement shall be null and void. This Agreement may not be enlarged, modified or altered,
except in writing, signed by the Parties.

25. GOVERNING LAW.

It is understood and agreed by the Parties hereto that the laws of the State of Utah and the
Ordinances of Metro Township, both as to interpretation and performance, shall govern this
Agreement. All actions, including but not limited to court proceedings, administrative
proceedings, arbitration and mediation proceedings, shali be commenced, maintained,
adjudicated and resolved within the jurisdiction of the State of Utah.

26. DISPUTES.

Disputes. Any controversy, claim or dispute in the course and scope of this Agreement or its
breach, termination, enforcement, interpretation or validity, including the determination of the
scope or applicability of this agreement to arbitrate, shall be determined by binding arbitration in
Salt Lake City, Utah, before a sole arbitrator. "Disputes" shall include, without limitation, those
involving fees, costs, billing, claims of negligence, and breach of ethical or fiduciary duties. The
American Arbitration Association (AAA) shall administer the arbitration pursuant to its
Commercial Arbitration Rules and Supplementary Procedures for Large, Complex Disputes. The
arbitration proceedings and record will be confidential and closed to the public. The arbitrator
must be a member in good standing of the Utah State Bar. The arbitrator shall, in the Award,
allocate all of the costs of the arbitration, including the fees of the arbitrator and the reasonable
attorney's fees of the prevailing party, against the party who did not prevail. Judgment on the
Award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction.

27. COUNTERPARTS.

This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts and all so executed shall constitute

one agreement binding on all the Parties, notwithstanding that each of the Parties are not

signatory to the original or the same counterpart. Further, executed copies of this Agreement
delivered by facsimile or scanned e-mail shall be deemed an original signed copy of this
Agreement.
AGREED TO BY THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL ON THIS _
pay of ZL Way 2014 .
WHITE CITY, METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
PAULINA F. FLINT, MAYOR
Attest:
“ : APPROVED AS TO FORM:
S : SWENSEN i
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER Z ¢ , f £
QO TO HIP ATTORNEY
VOTING
Councilmember Cutler Moteyti”
Councilmember Dickerson he
Mayor Flint bN&
Councilmember Perry Ke 5G
Councilmember Price Ye
eee
AGREED BY COMPANY:
“ »/? ey
DATE: fed ], PAZ SIGNATURE: - ee me ZED
: GREGORY L. SCHULZ, MPA
MANAGING DIRECTOR
GOVERNMENT CONSULTANTS LLC

ATTACHMENT “A” —- SCOPE OF WORK

Ny
Government Consultants LLC
8676 W Blackgum Ct : Magna, UT 84044
ite Phone: (801)419-3071 Email: greginsic@gmail.com
SCOPE OF WORK - MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATOR
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP

GENERAL OVERVIEW

Under the direction of the Mayor and Attorney, shall provide support to promote efficient and

effective work for the Council and Metro Township.

EXAMPLES OF DUTIES TO BE PERFORMED UNDER SCOPE OF WORK

QO I ES TU be PERFORMED UNDER SCOPE OF WORK
The following are duties that may be performed under the contract:

¢ Coordinates with legal staff to perform paralegal work, and provide administrative
recommendation to ordinance and resolutions deemed necessary and appropriate for the
best interest of the Metro Township.

e Works with Mayor, Council fiscal staff, and MSD fiscal staff to develop the Metro
Township’s Annual Budget and provides guidance to the Council as to the administration of
the Metro Township Budget.

e Performs special projects for the Council on an “as-requested” basis.

e Under the direction of the Council Chair, may prepare agendas and coordinate ordinances
and business items for consideration by the Council.

* If appointed by the Council, may act asa Hearing Officer for certain matters.
