WHIPE CEPY MISPRO TOWNSHIP
AN ORDINANCE CREATING CHAPTER 2.56 ~ COMMUNITY COUNCILS AS A PART

OF THE WHITE CIPY MUNICIPAL CODE POR THE PURPOSE OF PROMOTING

VOLUNTEER SERVICE AND IMPROVED GOVERNANCE FOR WHITE CITY

[3c it ordained by the White City Metre Township Council that Chapter 2.56 —
COMMUNITY COUNCILS, be established in the White City Municipal Code as follows:
Chapter 2.56 - COMMUNITY COUNCILS
2.56.010 ~ Purpose.

The purpose of establishing and recognizing community councils is to provide a mechanism
by which residents of the Metro Township may identify community service needs and assist the
Metro Township in facilitating those initiatives. Volunteer community councils are an effective
way Jor the metro township to maximize on the benefits of volunteer service for providing
necded events and programming to the residents of the metro township.

2.56.020 - Establishment.

Community councils are created by private citizens as private corporations, associations
or otherwise, and are not created by the Metro Township. Privately created community councils
may be recognized by the Metro Township as provided in this chapter.

2.56.050 - Community councils~-Representation.

A. The citizens may choose to create a community council for the purpose of serving the
Community and providing volunteer service. All members of community councils shall serve
without compensation. Any member of the electorate in a metro township may serve on such
community council, Vacancies on a community council shall be filled in accordance with the
community council's bylaws, All community council meetings shall be open to the public.

3. All community council bylaws, articles of incorporation, meetings, activities, elections, and
other functions shall abide by the minimum requirements of this chapter or the community
council will not be entitled to the various services, benefits, and status set out herein.

2.56,060 ~ Community councils-~Participation.

The citizens may by choice decline to create a community council under the terms of this
chapter.

2.56.065 - Cammunity council mectings.

Community councils shall conduct open and public meetings and shall permit interested
persons fo attend and participate in those meetings in accordance with applicable council bylaws
and regulations.

2.56.070 - Community councils Appointment of members.

Members of a community council shall be appointed to the council as determined by the
community counel’s bylaws.

2.56.090 - Community councils---Municipal services recommendations.

A, The community council shall be encouraged to develop priorities regarding municipal services
and facilities, These recommendations should be communicated in writing to the metro
township council on an annual basis for use in policy development and in the budget process.
Community councils are encouraged to arrive at such recommendations pursuant to duly held
and well-publicized public meetings.

3. The metro township council may request municipal service providers and encourage elected
officials and appointed board members to provide key personnel on a requested basis as staff
and resource persons to the community council.

2.56100 - Community councils ~ Planning and zoning information sent to community councils.

A. The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District planning and development services section,
or contracted designee, shall submit to the chairman and the designated planning and zoning
member of cach community council copies of the planning commission public meeting
agendas, applications for text changes to the zoning ordinance, zoning or conditional use
applications pertaining to real property located within metro township.

3. The staff of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District planning and development
services section, or contracted designee, shall notify the community council on planning and
zoning matters, and the date and time of the planning commission meeting.

2.56.10 » Budget.

A, The metro township council may budget monies annually for the community councils which
will be spent for administrative costs, including, but not limited to, legal notices, elections,
newsletfers, computers and software, other office equipment, dues to the association of
community councils, metro township-sponsored community events and community council
outreach activities or events, postage, stationary, and duplication costs. Funding will be
provided pursuant to budgeted amounts and upon direction of the metro township council.

3, Community councils receiving funds from the metro township shall establish a fiscal year in
their bylaws and make written budget requests, if any funding is requested, to the metro
township council by May Ist of each year. Within ninety days following the close of the
community council's fiscal year, it shall file a detailed financial statement with the identified
metro township designee. The statement shall set out community council revenues and
expenditures for the prior year and shail be in a form approved by the metro township council.

2.56.120 - Metro Township council participation.

The metro township council shall schedule at least one meeting annually during the month of
May with ihe community councils for the purposes of receiving recommendations on policy,
budget and other priorities.

2.56,130 - Volunteer status~—-Indemnification.

Community council members shall be considered volunteers to the metro township and not
employees, officials or officers of the metro township. Community councif members shall be
defended and indemnified by the metro township pursuant to the provisions of the Utah
Governmental Immunity Act in any civil action which may arise within the course and scope of
performance of their duties under this chapter.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the White City Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah this
+ Ch D ‘ ‘ O C? ‘ &
Paulina F. Flint, Couneil Chair
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
OOP te OS OR bo foo fg

sherrie Swensen METRO TOWNSHIP APTORNEIEY
Salt Lake County Clerk etna
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
VOTING
Council Member Flint voting fete! _

(Complete as Applicable)

Ordinance published in newspaper:

Effective date ofordinance;
