                                     Minutes of the City of West Jordan
                                         Committee of the Whole
                                     Tuesday, June 09, 2026 – 6:00 pm
                                         Approved June 23, 2026
                                      8000 S Redwood Road, 3rd Floor
                                          West Jordan, UT 84088



1.   Call to Order
      Council: Vice Chair Jessica Wignall, Annette Harris, Zach Jacob, Kayleen Whitelock
      Staff:    Council Office Director Alan Anderson, Senior Assistant City Attorney Patrick Boice,
                Mayor Dirk Burton, City Attorney Josh Chandler, Public Works Director Brian Clegg,
                Budget & Management Analyst Rebecca Condie, Public Utilities Director Greg
                Davenport, Assistant Planner Mark Forsythe, Public Services Director Cory Fralick,
                Assistant City Administrator Paul Jerome, Public Information Manager Marie Magers,
                City Administrator Korban Lee, Fire Chief Derek Maxfield, Senior Planner Ray
                McCandless, Council Office Clerk Cindy Quick, Police Chief Jeremy Robertson, Policy
                Analyst Walter Schmidt, Administrative Services Director Danyce Steck

      Acting Chair Wignall called the meeting to order at 4:02 pm, and noted that Council Member
      Whitelock was participating remotely. Council Members Lamb, Shelton, and Bedore were
      excused.


 2. Discussion Topics
       a. Property Tax Impact Schedule for Fiscal Year 2027
          Acting Chair Wignall noted the City voluntarily included the Property Tax Impact Schedule with
          FY2027 budget discussions in accordance with House Bill 236 and Utah League of Cities and
          Towns (ULCT) best practices. The schedule was accepted on May 5, 2026 and was available to
          the public.

       b. Discussion of the Fiscal Year 2027 Tentative Budget
          Administrative Services Director Danyce Steck said the meeting was intended for Council
          discussion of the FY2027 Tentative Budget. She said the Council needed to decide that evening
          the maximum property tax increase that they would consider for FY2027, and what budget
          items would be supported by the tax increase.

           Council Member Jacob commented that $50,000 in the FY2026 Economic Development
           Budget designated for business outreach during construction projects did not get spent. He
           asked why the funds were requested, why they were not spent, and why the line item was not
           included in the FY2027 Budget. City Administrator Korban Lee said the previous fiscal year
           included a lot of road projects that had big impact on area businesses, and said staff had
           wanted to do a better job of communicating impacts of projects to the business community
           in FY2026. Mr. Lee said FY2026 turned out to not have projects that were as impactful on the

Committee of the Whole Minutes                 Tuesday, June 09, 2026                             Page 1
           business community, and the funds were not spent. He said staff did not feel the extra funding
           would be needed in FY2027. Public Information Manager Marie Magers explained that tools
           now available to the City made communication with area businesses more efficient and less
           expensive.

           Council Member Whitelock read aloud a prepared statement thanking everyone who had
           worked on the Mayor’s Budget. She said a small annual property tax increase would be more
           palatable to her if the City truly had needs that could be justified, but said she had observed
           that an automatic annual property tax increase did not require the hard choices to be made,
           and did not get as much public involvement. Council Member Whitelock expressed concern
           with adding staff, and said she supported the concept of Beet Days, but struggled with
           including $100,000 in the FY2027 budget for Beet Days when she had not heard a plan for
           using the funds. She said she would rather use one-time money for Beet Days after she had
           heard and supported a plan.

           Council Member Whitelock said she agreed with Council Member Jacob’s comments at the
           previous Committee of the Whole meeting regarding the utility transfer, and said the Council
           needed more information on the transfer. She said she had always supported the transfer in
           the past because she believed it created more stability in the budget, but had concerns after
           the last COTW meeting. Ms. Steck clarified that concerns expressed at the previous COTW
           meeting related only to the Transportation Utility Fee, specifically street lights. She said there
           was legislation to support a transfer from other utilities.

           City Attorney Josh Chandler said he did not have concerns about the utility transfers included
           in the Mayor’s Budget. Mr. Chandler said he had not looked at whether transfer of the
           Transportation Utility Fee could be justified under new legislation because it was not included
           in the budget. Council Member Jacob said he thought it would be wise to wait for an analysis,
           and was comfortable leaving transfer of the Transportation Utility Fee out of the budget in
           FY2027. Council Member Whitelock said she concurred. Ms. Steck read aloud from HB425 that
           a city may not transfer funds from a transportation fund to any other fund or separate
           account, but transfer of reasonable administrative costs associated with a transportation fund
           was allowed.

           Mr. Lee explained that only the Transportation Utility Fee was called out in legislation, not
           Enterprise Fund transfers. Council Member Whitelock said she would rather have staff make
           sure the State was okay with the Enterprise Fund transfers. Council Member Jacob said he
           would rather remove the Transportation Utility Fee transfer from the budget for FY2027, and
           not shine a spotlight on the other transfers. Council Member Whitelock said she wanted to
           find out the true intent of the legislation. Acting Chair Wignall asked the Legislature’s
           justification for the language. Council Member Jacob said transportation utility fees had been
           a topic of conversation at the Legislature for a number of years, and guardrails were finally
           passed in 2026.

           Responding to a question from Council Member Whitelock, Ms. Steck said property tax
           revenue from the newly annexed area was not accounted for in the FY2027 budget, and said


Committee of the Whole Minutes                   Tuesday, June 09, 2026                                Page 2
           she did not know how much the property tax revenue from the area would be. Council
           Member Whitelock said she wanted to fund Beet Days a different way. Council Office Director
           Alan Anderson said staff calculated that the property tax increase could reduce from 2.26% to
           1.8% (approximately $1.79 per year lower for an average homeowner) if Beet Days was funded
           a different way.

           Council Member Jacob said he did an analysis of pet licensing several years ago and found that
           approximately 7% of pets in the City were licensed. He suggested increasing the fee for
           impounding cats and dogs, and reducing or eliminating the fee to license pets, hopefully
           resulting in increased conformity with pet licensing. Ms. Steck said the City received $34,000
           from animal licensing, and $45,000 from impounding. Council Member Jacob suggested
           increasing impounding fees by 65% to reduce licensing fees to zero. Mayor Burton commented
           that when Animal Control picked up a licensed animal, they were sometimes able to read the
           chip and return the animal to the owner rather than impounding.

           Council Member Bedore joined the meeting remotely at 4:33 pm.

           Chief Robertson said he believed eliminating the licensing fee would be possible, but said he
           would want to be sure the cost to administer the program would be recovered. City
           Administrator Korban Lee pointed out fees could be adjusted mid-year through a budget
           amendment, and said staff could look at options and possible unanticipated impacts if
           directed by the Council.

           Council Member Whitelock said she believed the Council needed to review cemetery fees and
           consider whether an increase was needed. She pointed out cemetery plots were a limited
           resource. Council Member Whitelock said the discussion had come up several times during
           her time on the Council, but fees had not been raised.

           Council Member Harris asked pros and cons of using one-time money for Beet Days. Council
           Member Jacob said the first Beet Days (planned for August 2027) would probably involve a lot
           of one-time expenses, including marketing. If one-time funds were used for the first year, a
           property tax increase would be necessary in the future to continue or grow the event if
           desired. Chair Bedore commented that removing Beet Days from the property tax increase for
           FY2027 would result in needing a larger increase for Beet Days the next year if the event was
           successful. Council Member Harris said she was unsure, and wanted more time to think about
           using property tax versus one-time money for Beet Days.

           Council Member Whitelock repeated that she wanted to know what the money would be used
           for, and said the true cost would not be known until after the event. She suggested the event
           may be so successful that the Council would want to eliminate some of the smaller City events
           in order to grow Beet Days. Council Member Harris acknowledged that planning such events
           took a lot of time, and said she did not want to burden staff with putting together a complete
           plan before the Council approved any funding. Mr. Lee pointed out that by the same time next
           year, the event would still not have happened. Council Member Jacob said he was comfortable
           seeding the event with $100,000 of ongoing money.


Committee of the Whole Minutes                  Tuesday, June 09, 2026                             Page 3
           Chair Bedore left at 4:48 pm.

           Mr. Anderson pointed out the Council could approve the Tentative Budget with a maximum
           2.26% increase, and settle at a lower percentage for the Final Budget in August. Responding
           to a question from Council Member Harris, Ms. Steck explained the Certified Tax Rate process.

           Acting Chair Wignall asked if staff had any questions for the Council. Mr. Lee referred to a
           suggestion from Council Member Shelton to increase staff for the Passport Office beyond
           what was requested. Mr. Lee asked how the majority of the Council felt about the question.
           Council Member Whitelock said she did not see the need to increase beyond the request.
           Council Member Jacob said Council Member Shelton’s suggestion might reduce difficulties
           related to turnover. Acting Chair Wignall said she believed enabling staff to take PTO (paid
           time off) was important, and said Ms. Steck had indicated staff would be able to temporarily
           pull someone from a different office into the Passport Office if needed. Acting Chair Wignall
           said she was comfortable with the requested change from two part-time positions to one full-
           time position included in the budget. Council Member Harris said she was comfortable with
           the change included in the budget, but not with adding another part-time position as
           suggested by Council Member Shelton. Council Member Jacob said he would be comfortable
           with either scenario, supplementing with one-time funds as needed.

           Mr. Lee said based on the Council discussion, he suggested leaving the staffing change in the
           budget as proposed, with the possibility of a budget amendment mid-year to add a part-time
           position if needed. A majority of the Council indicated support. Responding to a question from
           Council Member Whitelock, Ms. Steck confirmed that with the change requested in the
           budget, the Passport Office would essentially have the staffing Council Member Shelton had
           wanted to provide.

           Council Members Jacob, Harris, and Wignall indicated support for including the 2.26%
           property tax increase in the Tentative Budget.

           Ms. Steck explained proposed amendments to the FY2026 Budget, including: impact of the
           Leave Conversion Program; changes to Risk Management assessments and reserves; Fleet
           Management contributions; Benefits Management contributions; General Fund transfers to
           Development Services Fund, RDA Fund, and Capital Projects Fund; transfers into the General
           Fund; additional amendments to the General Fund; and changes to Highland Special District,
           Capital Projects Fund, Water Fund, Sewer Fund, Solid Waste Fund, Storm Water Fund,
           Streetlight Fund, Fleet Management Fund, IT Management Fund, Benefits Management Fund,
           and Risk Management Fund. Ms. Steck emphasized that all amendments led to an increase in
           reserves, with exception of the IT, Risk, and Streetlight funds.

           Responding to a question from Council Member Whitelock, Ms. Steck said the RDA received
           approximately $460,000 in tax increment from PayPal and Aligned Energy combined. She said
           the redevelopment area would expire in two budget years.

           Council Member Jacob pointed out that both the proposed CIP transfer in the FY2026 Budget

Committee of the Whole Minutes                  Tuesday, June 09, 2026                             Page 4
            amendment, and the proposed property tax increase in the FY2027 budget were
            approximately $500,000. Ms. Steck said the CIP transfer was one-time savings, and property
            tax provided an ongoing revenue stream. Council Member Jacob responded that if the
            $500,000 was not transferred out of the General Fund to the CIP Fund in FY2026, the General
            Fund baseline would be $500,000 higher. Mayor Burton said there was always a hope that
            there would be money to transfer into the CIP Fund because there was never enough money
            for projects. Council Member Jacob suggested there would not be a material change in what
            could be accomplished if the proposed FY2026 CIP transfer were removed.

            Council Member Jacob suggested reducing the proposed FY2027 property tax increase by the
            proportion of the proposed FY2026 CIP transfer amount that could be attributed to property
            tax. Mr. Lee said it sounded like Council Member Jacob assumed that FY2026 revenues had
            been underestimated, with a suggestion that property tax for the next year would not need
            to increase because of the underestimated revenues. Mr. Lee explained that revenue
            estimates for FY2027 were based on actual FY2026 numbers.

            Council Member Whitelock suggested the annual budgetary estimate of 5% sales tax revenue
            increase was too conservative. The Council and staff discussed the Capital Projects Fund. Ms.
            Steck said money transferred to the Capital Projects Fund was typically one-time savings from
            staff vacancies or savings in department budgets. She said the City did not really have a
            strategy for intentional investment in CIP. Council Member Jacob said he agreed with planned
            increases to keep up with inflation, but suggested some funds may grow at a rate that
            outpaced what was needed. He expressed the opinion that reevaluating and sometimes
            pulling back a little would be okay. Council Member Jacob said he did not want to change the
            proposed maximum property tax increase in the FY2027 Tentative Budget, but may not want
            to approve the full amount in August. Council Member Whitelock suggested she and Council
            Member Jacob do an RCA together.

            Ms. Steck said the Tentative Budget presented that evening for adoption would include a
            property tax increase of 2.26%.

 3. Administrative Items
     None

 4. Adjourn
     Acting Chair Wignall adjourned the meeting at 6:12 pm.

I certify that the foregoing minutes represent an accurate summary of what occurred at the meeting
held on June 9, 2026. This document constitutes the official minutes for the West Jordan Committee of
the Whole meeting.
/s/ Cindy M. Quick, MMC
Council Office Clerk
Approved this 23rd day of June 2026


Committee of the Whole Minutes                  Tuesday, June 09, 2026                             Page 5
