                                    Minutes of the City of West Jordan
                                          City Council Meeting
                                    Tuesday, June 09, 2026 – 7:00 pm
                                        Approved June 23, 2026
                                     8000 S Redwood Road, 3rd Floor
                                         West Jordan, UT 84088



 1. Call to Order
     Council:    Chair Bob Bedore, Acting Chair Jessica Wignall, Annette Harris, Zach Jacob, Chad Lamb
                 (absent), Kent Shelton, Kayleen Whitelock
     Staff:      Council Office Director Alan Anderson, Senior Assistant City Attorney Patrick Boice,
                 Mayor Dirk Burton, City Attorney Josh Chandler, Public Works Director Brian Clegg,
                 Budget & Management Analyst Rebecca Condie, Public Utilities Director Greg
                 Davenport, Assistant Planner Mark Forsythe, Public Services Director Cory Fralick,
                 Assistant City Administrator Paul Jerome, Public Information Manager Marie Magers,
                 City Administrator Korban Lee, Fire Chief Derek Maxfield, Senior Planner Ray
                 McCandless, Council Office Clerk Cindy Quick, Police Chief Jeremy Robertson, Policy
                 Analyst Walter Schmidt, Administrative Services Director Danyce Steck

     Acting Chair Wignall called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm. She noted that Council Members Bedore
     and Whitelock participated remotely, Council Member Lamb was excused, and Council Member
     Shelton would join later in the evening.


 2. Pledge of Allegiance
     Walter Schmidt led participants in the Pledge of Allegiance.

 3. Special Recognition
       a. Introduction of the 2026 Western Stampede Royalty
          Jenn Mayne, Western Stampede Royalty Chair, introduced the 2026 Western Stampede
          Royalty: Addie Bowler, Rodeo Queen; Riley Vorhees, First Attendant; and Janna Johnson,
          Second Attendant. The Council expressed congratulations and took the opportunity for a
          photograph.

       b. Recognizing the West Jordan High School Track & Field Team for Their State Championship
          Coach Tayler Thompson recognized the West Jordan High School Track & Field Team for
          winning the State Championship. The Council congratulated the team and took the opportunity
          for a photograph.

 4. Council & Mayor Reports
       a. City Council Reports



City Council Meeting Minutes                    Tuesday, June 09, 2026                           Page 1
          None

       b. Mayor’s Report
          Mayor Burton spoke of doing a ride along with the Police Department, and commended West
          Jordan Police Officers for how they handled situations. The Mayor reported on recent events
          in the community, and reported that Jordan Landing was ranked as the #1 retail destination in
          Salt Lake County based on 2025 foot traffic data. Mayor Burton said City offices would be closed
          on Monday, June 15 in observance of Juneteenth.

       c. City Administrator’s Report
          Public Works Director Brian Clegg provided an update on the 1300 West widening project, and
          said the project would hopefully be completed in Spring of 2027. Public Services Director Cory
          Fralick reported on installation of soccer mini-pitch fields, and provided an update on
          improvements at Ron Wood Park.

 5.    Public Comment
       Acting Chair Wignall opened public comment at 7:20 pm.
       Comments:
       Ryan Wilkinson spoke of previous interactions with Council Member Jacob.

       Acting Chair Wignall closed public comment at 7:24 pm.

 6.    Public Hearings
       a. Resolution No. 26-032 Requesting a Fee Waiver in the Amount of $450 for Six Dumpsters for
          a Neighborhood Cleanup Day
          Jared Palms said the Westin 10th Ward did a cleanup event twice a year to help the many senior
          citizens in the neighborhood. He said dumpsters were essential to the cleanup effort, and
          requested a fee waiver in the amount of $450 for six dumpsters.

          Acting Chair Wignall opened the meeting for public comment at 7:26 pm.
          Comments:
          None
          Acting Chair Wignall closed public comment at 7:26 pm.

          Council Member Harris asked when the event was planned. Mr. Palms said the cleanup was
          planned for the coming Saturday, and described where the neighborhood was located.

           MOTION:      Council Member Jacob moved to APPROVE Resolution No. 26-032 Requesting a
                        Fee Waiver in the Amount of $450 for Six Dumpsters for a Neighborhood
                        Cleanup Day.
                        Acting Chair Wignall seconded the motion.



City Council Meeting Minutes                    Tuesday, June 09, 2026                              Page 2
          The vote was recorded as follows:
           YES:       Bob Bedore, Jessica Wignall, Annette Harris, Zach Jacob, Kayleen Whitelock
           NO:
           ABSENT: Chad Lamb, Kent Shelton
          The motion passed 5-0.

       b. Petition from Dale Bennett for the Sugar Factory on the Creek Development of 1.78 Acres
          Located at 1790 West Sugar Factory Road
             • Ordinance No. 26-29 Preliminary Development Plan/Agreement
             • Ordinance No. 26-30 Rezone to CC-R Zone (City Center-Residential)
          Brandon Wixom, representing the applicant, thanked staff for time spent reviewing the
          proposed project over the past year. He said Sugar Factory on the Creek would be a community
          of 23 thoughtfully designed fee simple townhomes in a walkable setting next to West Jordan
          City Center. He said the area was ideal for walkable residential development, and said the
          proposed rezone would allow the underutilized property to become productive while
          remaining consistent with the City’s long-term vision of the area. Mr. Wixom showed a site
          plan and plans for open space amenities, townhome elevations, pedestrian enhancements,
          parking, fencing and walls, and lighting plans. He said the proposed plan had been through
          extensive review by staff, the Design Review Committee, the Planning Commission, and
          neighboring property owners, with feedback incorporated throughout the process. Mr. Wixom
          requested approval of the Development Plan/Agreement and proposed rezone to the CC-R
          Zone.

          Responding to a question from Council Member Jacob, Mr. Wixom said Bingham Creek at that
          location was usually a low, meandering creek. Council Member Jacob said the landscaping in
          front of the north townhome units facing the train tracks would need to be sufficient. Council
          Member Jacob asked about the units proposed to not have driveways, and Mr. Wixom said the
          project would meet parking requirements in City Code, and all units would have a two-car
          garage. Council Member Jacob said he was comfortable with the proposed rezone, but was not
          sure about the development plan. Council Member Whitelock said she agreed, and said she
          could not agree with units that did not have 22-foot driveways, especially with only five parking
          stalls included in the plan.

          Council Member Whitelock asked where the mature trees that Mr. Wixom proposed to leave
          were located. Mr. Wixom said most of the mature trees that would remain were on the north
          side of the canal.

          Chair Bedore said he agreed with concerns about the parking plan. He said the units without
          driveways were a weird look, and said people wanted driveways. Chair Bedore suggested
          reducing the number of units to be able to provide driveways for all the units. He said he liked
          the focus on providing a walkable community. Mr. Wixom said the development was close to
          the TRAX Station, and the property would be marketed to young working professionals. Chair
          Bedore said the Council needed to consider the type of parking provided, in addition to
          whether the required amount of parking was provided.


City Council Meeting Minutes                    Tuesday, June 09, 2026                               Page 3
          Assistant Planner Mark Forsythe said there were two parts to parking requirements in the CC-
          R Zone: parking per unit (with a maximum of 1.5 parking spaces per unit), and guest parking.
          The proposed two parking spaces in each garage would exceed the maximum, and a provision
          was needed in the Development Agreement to allow the project to exceed the maximum per-
          unit parking limit. The five parking stalls and the driveways would provide the guest parking.

          Council Member Jacob asked if the Development Agreement included a requirement that
          residents park in their garages. Mr. Forsythe said the Development Agreement did not include
          such a provision, but it could be included in CC&Rs when the plat was recorded. Council
          Member Jacob said the subject property was on the very edge of what could be considered the
          City Center, and said the train tracks were a barrier to the library and City Hall and everything
          else in the City Center. He commented that if the proposed parking plan met CC-R Zone
          requirements, he was less inclined to think the CC-R Zone was the right zone for the project.

          Council Member Harris asked what options the developer would have if the Council required
          all units to have driveways. Mr. Forsythe said the constraints of the lot would make it difficult
          to find space for driveways. He said the private lane width was already the bare minimum for
          emergency access. Council Member Whitelock said she had concerns, and said a redesign
          would be needed to get the parking the Council wanted. She said she liked the overall idea of
          the housing community, but said there was more work to be done.

          Council Member Harris asked if the applicant could come back with a redesign. Council
          Member Jacob said if the Council denied the application, the applicant could bring back a new
          application if significant changes were made. The applicant would need to wait a year to bring
          back an application that was substantially the same.

          Acting Chair Wignall opened a public hearing at 7:54 pm.

          Comments:
          Dale Bennett, applicant, said he had been working on the project for over a year, fine tuning
          the application with input from staff, the Planning Commission, and others. He said the
          Planning Commission gave unanimous approval. Mr. Bennett said the same idea had worked
          well in other cities, and said not everyone had three or four cars. He said more than 25% of the
          units without a driveway would have guest parking, which was adequate in most cities. Mr.
          Bennett emphasized that the project was overparked under the CC-R Zone, which had been
          addressed in the Development Agreement. He said he found it frustrating that the Council
          acted like they had never seen the proposal before. He said during the year of working on the
          plan, the units on the east side had always been shown as not having driveways, and would be
          priced accordingly. He said there was a market for the design, and there was not a lot of the
          design in West Jordan.

          Anthony Jotts, West Jordan resident, said his property shared the west and north property line
          with the proposed project. He said his house was 33 inches away from the proposed wall, and
          his driveway would run with the proposed road and share the approach. He expressed the
          opinion that the plan needed to be downsized.

City Council Meeting Minutes                    Tuesday, June 09, 2026                               Page 4
          Ryan Wilkinson expressed support for the project as presented.

          Acting Chair Wignall closed the public hearing at 8:00 pm.

          Council Member Jacob said the applicant had a good point when he said he had been working
          on the plan for a long time; however, he said he did not think the Council was saying anything
          substantially different than had been said during the previous work session. He said at the work
          session the Council indicated the plan was almost there, and just needed to have driveways
          and parking added, but the plan was brought back without quite getting there. Council Member
          Jacob said he did not want to prohibit progress on the plan, because he believed it could be
          altered to become a plan the Council could approve.

          Council Member Jacob made a motion to postpone Ordinance No. 26-29 and Ordinance No.
          26-30 to a date uncertain, no later than August 31, 2026. Council Member Whitelock
          seconded the motion.

          Acting Chair Wignall asked to amend the motion to say no later than July 31, 2026. Council
          Members Jacob and Whitelock said they were amenable to the amendment.

           MOTION:      Council Member Jacob moved to Postpone Ordinance No. 26-29 Preliminary
                        Development Plan/Agreement and Ordinance No. 26-30 Rezone to CC-R Zone
                        (City Center-Residential) for the Sugar Factory on the Town Creek Development
                        of 1.78 Acres Located at 1790 West Sugar Factory Road to a date no later than
                        July 31, 2026.
                        Council Member Whitelock seconded the motion.
          The vote was recorded as follows:
           YES:       Bob Bedore, Jessica Wignall, Annette Harris, Zach Jacob, Kayleen Whitelock
           NO:
           ABSENT: Chad Lamb, Kent Shelton
          The motion passed 5-0.

       c. Ordinance No. 26-28 a Petition from Utah Development Group/Marco Diaz for a Rezone of
          0.43 Acres to an R-1-8 Zone for the Diaz Lot Located at 8305 South 2200 West
          Marco Diaz with Utah Development Group used the Zoning Map to show that the subject
          property was surrounded by R-2, R-1-10A, R-3-22(ZC), and P-F. He said the property was cut
          almost in half by the South Jordan Canal, and the development team had been working with
          the canal company and the City to come to an agreement concerning easements. Mr. Diaz
          showed renderings of the .43-acre property with a single-family home, and expressed the
          opinion that developing a home on the currently open property would enhance the area.

          Council Member Jacob asked if 2200 West was a collector street, and Mr. Forsythe responded
          it was. Mr. Forsythe said there was not a policy or regulation about residential driveways


City Council Meeting Minutes                    Tuesday, June 09, 2026                              Page 5
          opening onto collector streets in the Zoning Code, but said he knew it was not necessarily
          encouraged. Responding to a question from Council Member Whitelock, Mr. Forsythe
          explained options available to the developer to ensure a 22-foot driveway. Council Member
          Whitelock emphasized that a 22-foot driveway was necessary. Mr. Diaz expressed his intention
          to ensure City requirements were met. Chair Bedore said he would be willing to consider
          adjusting setbacks to accommodate a 22-foot driveway if needed.

          Acting Chair Wignall opened the meeting to public comment at 8:14 pm.

          Comments:
          None

          Acting Chair Wignall closed public comment at 8:14 pm.

          MOTION:       Council Member Jacob moved to APPROVE Ordinance No. 26-28 a Petition from
                        Utah Development Group/Marco Diaz to a Rezone of 0.43 Acres to an R-1-8
                        Zone for the Diaz Lot Located at 8305 South 2200 West.
                        Council Member Harris seconded the motion.
          The vote was recorded as follows:
          YES:        Bob Bedore, Jessica Wignall, Annette Harris, Zach Jacob, Kayleen Whitelock
          NO:
          ABSENT: Chad Lamb, Kent Shelton
          The motion passed 5-0.

       d. Ordinance No. 26-31 a Petition from Margaret Hyatt for Approximately 3.457 Acres to
          Amend the General Plan Future Land Use Map to Community Commercial and Amend the
          Zoning Map to C-G Zone (General Commercial) for Properties Located at Approximately 4606,
          4614, and 4622 West 7800 South (7800 South Commercial Property)
          Margarett Hyatt, applicant and co-owner of the subject properties, explained the request to
          amend the Future Land Use Map (FLUM) to Community Commercial, and rezone the subject
          properties to General Commercial (C-G) Zone. She said uses permitted in the C-G Zone included
          banking institutions, and said they were currently under contract with Alta Bank for a portion
          of the property. She said the owners were confident that with the rezone and the Alta Bank
          development, the area would be activated, and said they were currently in negotiation with
          other compatible retail uses. She thanked staff for their time helping the applicant prepare for
          the meeting, and requested a favorable vote.

          Acting Chair Wignall opened the meeting to public comment at 8:17 pm.

          Comments:
          None

          Acting Chair Wignall closed public comment at 8:18 pm.


City Council Meeting Minutes                    Tuesday, June 09, 2026                              Page 6
           MOTION:      Council Member Jacob moved to APPROVE Ordinance No. 26-31 a Petition
                        from Margaret Hyatt for Approximately 3.457 Acres to Amend the General Plan
                        Future Land Use Map to Community Commercial and Amend the Zoning Map
                        to C-G Zone (General Commercial) for Properties Located at Approximately
                        4606, 4614, and 4622 West 7800 South (7800 South Commercial Property).
                        Acting Chair Wignall seconded the motion.
          The vote was recorded as follows:
           YES:       Bob Bedore, Jessica Wignall, Annette Harris, Zach Jacob, Kayleen Whitelock
           NO:
           ABSENT: Chad Lamb, Kent Shelton
          The motion passed 5-0.

       e. Property Tax Impact Schedule for Fiscal Year 2027
          Acting Chair Wignall noted that a Property Tax Impact Schedule was included with the agenda
          packet, consistent with House Bill 236 and Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT) best
          practices. The schedule was available to the public.

       f. A Budget Officer for West Jordan City Intends to Again State the Following:
            • West Jordan City is considering a tax rate that exceeds the certified tax rate
            • The approximate dollar amount and purpose of the ad valorem tax revenue increase
            • The approximate percentage increase in ad valorem tax revenue that is based on the
               tax rate increase
            • West Jordan City shall provide notice of and conduct a public hearing as required where
               members of the public have an opportunity to comment on the proposed increase
          Administrative Services Director Danyce Steck presented the Property Tax Impact Schedule for
          FY2027. She explained the proposed property tax increase revenue would be used to:
             o hire one full-time parks maintenance works and one full-time parks planner, eliminating
                 three seasonal laborer positions;
             o hire one full-time crossing guard supervisor;
             o establish an annual summer event titled, “Beet Days”;
             o upgrade a Police Officer I position to a Police Lieutenant;
             o hire one full-time passport agent and eliminate two part-time positions;
             o hire one new customer service representative to serve the west side of the City at the
                 Public Works Building

       g. Resolution No. 26-022 Authorizing the Transfer of Monies from Enterprise Funds to Other
          City Funds in Fiscal Year 2027
          Ms. Steck explained requirements in State Code to transfer money from utility funds to other
          City funds. She said utilities such as Rocky Mountain Power and Dominion Energy paid the City
          a franchise tax to maintain public right-of-way impacted by the utilities. Using the same
          methodology, 5% of expenditures was transferred from the Water, Sewer, and Storm Water
          Funds to maintain public right-of-way. Without the transfer, the property tax increase in

City Council Meeting Minutes                   Tuesday, June 09, 2026                              Page 7
          FY2027 would need to be increased by an additional 12.5%. Ms. Steck showed how the transfer
          would affect each of the Funds, and explained the difference between utility transfers and
          administrative cost allocation. The Council reviewed the proposed administrative cost
          allocation by fund. Ms. Steck recommended approval of Resolution No. 26-022.

          Acting Chair Wignall opened the meeting to public comment at 8:30 pm.

          Comments:
          None

          Acting Chair Wignall closed public comment at 8:30 pm.

          MOTION:       Council Member Jacob moved to APPROVE Resolution No. 26-022 Authorizing
                        the Transfer of Monies from Enterprise Funds to Other City Funds in Fiscal Year
                        2027.
                        Council Member Harris seconded the motion.
          The vote was recorded as follows:
          YES:        Bob Bedore, Jessica Wignall, Annette Harris, Zach Jacob, Kayleen Whitelock
          NO:
          ABSENT: Chad Lamb, Kent Shelton
          The motion passed 5-0.

       h. Resolution No. 26-019 Stating the Compensation Increase for Local Government Officers as
          Proposed in the Annual Budget for Fiscal Year 2027
          Ms. Steck presented the proposed compensation increase for local government officers for
          FY2027, including a 2% cost of living adjustment and 2.75% merit increase.

          Council Member Shelton joined at 8:34 pm.

          Acting Chair Wignall opened a public hearing at 8:35 pm.

          Comments:
          None

          Acting Chair Wignall closed the public hearing at 8:35 pm.

           MOTION:      Council Member Jacob moved to APPROVE Resolution No. 26-019 Stating the
                        Compensation Increase for Local Government Officers as Proposed in the
                        Annual Budget for Fiscal Year 2027.
                        Council Member Harris seconded the motion.
          The vote was recorded as follows:
           YES:       Bob Bedore, Jessica Wignall, Annette Harris, Zach Jacob, Kent Shelton


City Council Meeting Minutes                   Tuesday, June 09, 2026                              Page 8
           NO:     Kayleen Whitelock
           ABSENT: Chad Lamb
          The motion passed 5-1.

       i. Ordinance No. 26-26 Fixing the Compensation for Elected and Statutory Officers of the City
          Administrative Service Director Danyce Steck presented proposed compensation for elected
          and statutory officers for FY2027.

          Acting Chair Wignall opened a public hearing at 8:37 pm.

          Comments:
          None

          Acting Chair Wignall closed the public hearing at 8:37 pm.

          MOTION:       Council Member Jacob moved to APPROVE Ordinance No. 26-26 Fixing the
                        Compensation for Elected and Statutory Officers of the City.
                        Vice Chair Wignall seconded the motion.
          The vote was recorded as follows:
          YES:    Bob Bedore, Jessica Wignall, Annette Harris, Zach Jacob, Kent Shelton
          NO:     Kayleen Whitelock
          ABSENT: Chad Lamb
          The motion passed 5-1.

       j. Resolution No. 26-029 Adopting the Tentative Budget for FY2027 Which Includes a Proposed
          Property Tax Increase, and Scheduling a Public Hearing Before Adoption of the Interim Budget
          Ms. Steck stated the FY2027 Tentative Budget included a property tax increase. She presented
          changes from the Mayor’s Budget to the Tentative Budget, with a final Tentative Budget of
          $254,602,720. Ms. Steck said the Tentative Budget would act as the standing budget until the
          Interim Budget was adopted on June 23, 2026.

          Acting Chair Wignall opened a public hearing at 8:43 pm.

          Comments:
          None

          Acting Chair Wignall closed the public hearing at 8:43 pm.

          MOTION:       Council Member Shelton moved to APPROVE Resolution No. 26-029 Adopting
                        the Tentative Budget for FY2027 Which Includes a Proposed Property Tax
                        Increase, and Scheduling a Public Hearing Before Adoption of the Interim
                        Budget.


City Council Meeting Minutes                   Tuesday, June 09, 2026                           Page 9
                        Council Member Jacob seconded the motion.

          Council Member Whitelock said she would vote in favor of the Tentative Budget to have more
          time to discuss the budget, with the hope of getting away from a tax increase.

          The vote was recorded as follows:
          YES:       Bob Bedore, Jessica Wignall, Annette Harris, Zach Jacob, Kent Shelton, Kayleen
                     Whitelock
          NO:
          ABSENT: Chad Lamb
          The motion passed 6-0.

       k. Ordinance No. 26-27 Amending the City’s Annual Budget for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30,
          2026
          Ms. Steck said the Council reviewed proposed amendments to the FY2026 Budget during the
          work session earlier in the evening. She briefly presented proposed amendments, and said staff
          recommended approval of Ordinance No. 26-27.

          Acting Chair Wignall opened a public hearing at 8:52 pm.

          Comments:
          None

          Acting Chair Wignall closed the public hearing at 8:52 pm.

          Council Member Jacob commented that a budget amendment was needed every year in June
          so that the adopted budget and actual numbers aligned.

          MOTION:       Council Member Jacob moved to APPROVE Ordinance No. 26-27 Amending the
                        City’s Annual Budget for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 2026.
                        Council Member Shelton seconded the motion.
          The vote was recorded as follows:
          YES:        Bob Bedore, Jessica Wignall, Annette Harris, Zach Jacob, Kent Shelton, Kayleen
                      Whitelock
          NO:
          ABSENT: Chad Lamb
          The motion passed 6-0.

 7.    Business Items
       a. Resolution No. 26-023 Authorizing the Pick-up of Certain Public Safety and Firefighter
          Employee Retirement Contributions


City Council Meeting Minutes                   Tuesday, June 09, 2026                            Page 10
          Ms. Steck explained that the State authorized cities to pick up retirement contributions of
          certain public safety and firefighter employees. She said the proposed resolution met
          requirements of the IRS and URS.

           MOTION:      Council Member Jacob moved to APPROVE Resolution No. 26-023 Authorizing
                        the Pick-up on Certain Public Safety and Firefighter Employee Retirement
                        Contributions.
                        Acting Chair Wignall seconded the motion.
          The vote was recorded as follows:
           YES:       Bob Bedore, Jessica Wignall, Annette Harris, Zach Jacob, Kent Shelton, Kayleen
                      Whitelock
           NO:
           ABSENT: Chad Lamb
          The motion passed 6-0.

 8.    Reports to Council
       a. Council Office Report
          Council Office Director Alan Anderson reported the Council Office had received 13 applications
          for the West Jordan Youth Council, and applications were still being gathered.

       b. Presentation of the Annual Fraud Risk Assessment for Fiscal Year 2026
          Administrative Services Director Danyce Steck presented the FY2026 Fraud Risk Assessment,
          and said the City had a very low fraud risk with a score of 375 out of 395. She said the 20-point
          difference between the City’s score and a perfect score was an independent internal audit
          function, which the City did not have.

 9.    Consent Items
       a. Meeting Minutes
            • May 12, 2026 – Committee of the Whole Meeting
            • May 12, 2026 – Regular City Council Meeting
            • May 26, 2026 – Committee of the Whole Meeting
            • May 26, 2026 – Regular City Council Meeting
       b. Resolution No. 26-031 Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Attached Real Estate Purchase
          Contract for the City to Purchase Real Property Located at 1477 West Bridgeport Way
           MOTION:      Council Member Jacob moved to APPROVE consent items as listed.
                        Council Member Shelton seconded the motion.
          The vote was recorded as follows:
           YES:       Bob Bedore, Jessica Wignall, Annette Harris, Zach Jacob, Kent Shelton, Kayleen
                      Whitelock
           NO:

City Council Meeting Minutes                     Tuesday, June 09, 2026                             Page 11
           ABSENT: Chad Lamb
          The motion passed 6-0.

 10. Adjourn
      Acting Chair Wignall adjourned the meeting at 9:03 pm.

I hereby certify that the foregoing minutes represent an accurate summary of what occurred at the
meeting held on June 9, 2026. This document constitutes the official minutes for the West Jordan City
Council meeting.

/s/ Cindy M. Quick, MMC
Council Office Clerk

Approved this 23rd day of June 2026




City Council Meeting Minutes                   Tuesday, June 09, 2026                           Page 12
