                                     MINUTES OF THE CITY OF WEST JORDAN
                                         OATH OF OFFICE CEREMONY

                                        Monday, January 3, 2022 - 6:00 pm
                                          Approved January 12, 2022

                   West Jordan City Council Chambers • 8000 S Redwood Road • West Jordan, UT 84088


COUNCIL:      Chair Zach Jacob, Vice-Chair Kelvin Green, Pamela Bloom, Christopher McConnehey, David
              Pack, Kayleen Whitelock

STAFF:        City Treasurer Tyler Aitken, Council Office Director Alan R. Anderson, Public Services
              Director Isaac Astill, Public Works Director Brian Clegg, Executive Assistant Shanna
              Crawford, Policy Analyst & Public Liaison Cassidy Hansen, City Administrator Korban Lee,
              Fire Chief Derek Maxfield, Council Office Clerk Cindy Quick, City Recorder Tangee Sloan,
              Police Chief Ken Wallentine, and City Attorney Robert Wall

A.       Call to Order
Council Chair Jacob called the ceremony to order at 6:00 pm

B.       Flag Ceremony
The flag ceremony was presented by West Jordan Police and Fire Departments

C.       National Anthem – Council Member David Pack
Council Member David Pack performed the National Anthem

D.       Welcome – Council Chair Zach Jacob
Council Chair Jacob welcomed those in attendance and thanked those in attendance. He mentioned
that it’s not a small thing to run for office. He felt that participating in government is a unique thing
and thanked those who ran and were elected. Thanked the citizens who voted and noted that their
voice matters. He noted that they would be under a spotlight and may not always agree with each
other they get along, discuss, debate, and vote and move forward.

He turned the time to City Recorder Tangee Sloan to swear in newly elected Council Members.

E.       Administration of the Oath of Office – City Recorder Tangee Sloan
City Recorder Tangee Sloan administered the Oath of Office to newly elected Council Members
Pamela Bloom, Kelvin Green, and Kayleen Whitelock

F.       Remarks by Council Members
           • Council Member Pamela Bloom
Pamela Bloom expressed the honor she felt having an opportunity to serve the City of West Jordan
as a Council Member. Service has always been a big part of her life and it’s something she did not
feel entitled to, but an opportunity to be an example. She mentioned that working to make the place
she lives a better place to live in has been a theme in her life. She looked forward to getting to know
the residents of the city better and encouraged others to get involved. She voiced appreciation for
all those who supported her to reach this moment.



           • Council Member Kelvin Green
   Special City Council Meeting Minutes – January 3, 2022                                                 Page 2

   Kelvin Green mentioned that the first time he took the oath was in 1995 and he felt it was such an
   important part of his life. He thanked the voters for their trust in him to be their representative. He
   thanked his family for their support and passed out gifts to them. Quoting Shawn Paton he said, “to
   do things you’ve never done before; you have to do something you’ve never done before.” He
   challenged the citizens of West Jordan to help the Council by doing things they’d never done before
   and get more involved in their community.

               • Council Member Kayleen Whitelock
   Kayleen Whitelock thanked all in attendance and those from the city supporting them. Got into
   politics because she was a PTA mom which got her involved in school board meetings, and
   eventually prompted her to run for City Council. She felt it an honor to serve as a Council Member
   for the last four years and felt the city was in a good trajectory which she wanted to continue. She
   felt the Council may not always agree but were always able to reach the best decision for the City.
   She thanked all those who had supported her and encouraged residents to reach out and interact
   with Council members to share what you’d have them do. She truly loves her city and thanked
   residents for the opportunity to continue serving as a Council Member.

    G.     Closing Remarks – Council Chair Zach Jacob
    Council Chair Zach Jacob offered congratulations to each Council Members elected and thanked
    staff for putting the evening together. He looked forward to serving with the Council for the next
    four years and echoed the challenge for residents to reach out to the Council.

    H.     Adjourn
   Council Member Pamela Bloom moved to adjourn the meeting. Council Member Kelvin Green
   seconded the motion. All voted in favor and the motion passed unanimously.

   The meeting adjourned at 6:28 pm


I, Cindy Quick, hereby certify that the foregoing minutes represent an accurate summary of what occurred at the
meeting held on January 3, 2022. This document constitutes the official minutes for the West Jordan City Council
Meeting.

Cindy M. Quick, MMC
Council Office Clerk

Approved this 12th day of January 2022
