 MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING
 COMMISSION HELD FEBRUARY 15, 2022 IN THE WEST JORDAN COUNCIL CHAMBERS
PRESENT:
                Jay Thomas, Kent Shelton, Matt Quinney, Trish Hatch, Corbin England, Ammon Allen,
                and George Winn

STAFF:
                Scott Langford, Larry Gardner, Duncan Murray, Mark Forsythe, Julie Davis
OTHERS:         Mayor Burton, Jorge Barragan




The briefing meeting was called to order by Jay Thomas. The agenda was reviewed. Duncan Murray
provided training on the Utah Municipal Officers' Ethics Act.

                                               xxxxxxxxxx****************************
                                                                                                     xxxxxxxxx




The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 00 p.m.
1.      Consent Calendar
        Approve Minutes from February 1, 2022
MOTION:
                Corbin England moved to approve the Minutes from February 1, 2022 as listed in
                the packet. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7- 0 in favor.


2.
        West Jordan Picklr; 6856 South Redwood Road; Conditional Use Permit for Recreation
        and Entertainment, Indoor; SC-2 ( ZC) Zone; The Picklr/Jorge Barragan (applicant)
          26398; parcel 21- 22- 381- 026]


Jorge Barragan, applicant and co- founder of The Picklr, said they were excited to be expanding into
West Jordan and other areas. The goal and focus of the business are on family, community, and healthy
living with their 24/ 7 indoor pickleball facility. They have monthly tournaments, leagues, clinics, open
play, and a youth program. There are also opportunities for private events. They also partner with the
Polynesian Pickleball Club and this location will be their hub. Photos of the indoor space layout were
shown. There will be 11 pickleball courts and a small pro shop. He addressed the question regarding
spectator seating. Tournaments are usually limited to 14 teams, so they would never have more than 90
people in the building. Some of the courts have spectator benches, but usually anyone watching will
stand against the fence. Tournaments are usually not heavily attended by spectators.
Mark Forsythe gave an overview of the application for pickleball court rental and occasional
tournaments. The SC- 2 zone works well for these types of applications because there is ample parking
and major roads are nearby to handle traffic. Staff does not anticipate a noise impact to the surrounding
properties. All activities will be interior to the building and there is a masonry wall along the west
property line with a row of mature trees that will act as a buffer. Also, many of the adjacent homes sit
below the height of the wall. This is a 24- hour facility that will be staffed most of the day with 5- 15
employees and at least one employee until midnight. At that time the facility will be locked but can be
reserved and accessed with a randomly generated code that expires within 24 hours. Security cameras
will be installed on the exterior of the building. There are two potential categories on which to base the
parking calculation: indoor recreation and recreation center. Indoor recreation is set up for more
parking intensive   uses and would   have required 287 parking spaces in addition       to what the existing
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 15, 2022
Page 2



businesses need. Staff felt that the recreation center category was more accurate for this particular use
and would require 92 spaces, which is more conducive to what would actually be generated. The total
requirement including the existing businesses is 302 spaces and the parking lot has 485 spaces.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Conditional Use Permit for West
Jordan Picklr, located at 6856 South Redwood Road in an SC- 2( ZC) zone, with the Conditions and
Requirements      of Approval listed below:


Conditions of Approval
1.
         The business activities shall be substantially consistent with the submitted application, letter of
         intent, and site plan. Deviations from these documents shall be reviewed by all pertinent
         departments of the City of West Jordan.
2.       The entirety of the lease space must be vacated prior to the commencement of the use.
3.
         All activities associated with the use shall be conducted only inside the building. Outdoor
         activities   are prohibited.

4.
         All exterior doors of the building shall be securely locked during times in which no employees
         are present at the facility. Randomly generated access codes may be securely distributed to
         customers for access to the building during non- staffed hours.

Requirements of Approval
1.
         A Building Permit must be obtained prior to commencement of any interior and/or exterior
         construction work, as required by the Building Official.
2.
         A permit shall be obtained for any new exterior signage.
3.       The business shall adhere to all sign requirements, as set forth in Title 12 and Title 13 Chapter
         17 of the West Jordan City Code.
4.       The Conditional Use Permit shall be valid for a period no longer than 12 months, unless a
         building permit is issued and construction is actually begun within that period and is thereafter
         diligently pursued to completion, or unless a certificate of occupancy is issued and a use
         commenced within that period, or unless a longer time is requested and granted by the planning
         commission.




Jorge Barragan answered questions from the Commission. They have a small speaker inside that can
be used for music if wanted, but there is not an installed PA system. The security cameras are placed
on the outside of the entrance, inside the facility at every court, and inside of the building entrance near
the pro shop. Play until midnight happens on most nights. After that the building is locked and use is
more random, but access is specific to that reservation. The access code allows the group to enter
within an hour of the appointment time and then the code expires. They have had zero issues with
vandalism or theft at their current location. The pickleball community tends to be very respectful to the
facility. They could also install cameras behind the building if required.

Ammon Allen asked if there are any conditions regarding noise inside of the building that might affect
the neighboring businesses.

Mark Forsythe said staff will generally look to address impacts outside of the building, and even then,
noise is regulated    by the Health Department.
    Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
    February 15, 2022
    Page 3




    Ammon Allen was also concerned that the definitions as they related to parking should be clear so that
    future applications will be treated in the same way.

    There was a brief discussion on how that determination was made for this specific business and the
    type of parking needed. Definitions could be reviewed.


    Jorge Barragan explained that a reservation allows for up to five people on the court at any given time.
    If all courts are full that could be 50 people with some spectators. It is pay-to-play so people will leave
    as soon as their reservation time is over and that is what they plan on for parking numbers.
Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.
MOTION:
                   Matt Quinney moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
                   report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to approve the
                   Conditional Use Permit for Recreation and Entertainment, Indoor for West
                   Jordan Picklr, located at 6856 South Redwood Road in an SC- 2 ( ZC) zone, with
                   the Conditions and Requirements of Approval listed in the staff report. The
                   motion was seconded by Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.

MOTION:            Matt Quinney moved to adjourn.

The meeting adjourned at 6: 20 p. m.




                                                  J       T OMAS
                                                  Chair


ATTEST:
                                                                                     P                     l '


                                                                                                            t.

J      IE DAVIS
Executive Assistant
Community Development Department

Approved this
                        1    day of     pi n                               2022
