        MINUTES OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 HELD APRIL 5, 2022 IN THE THOMAS M. REES JUSTICE CENTER COMMUNITY ROOM

 COMMISSION:
                         Jay Thomas, Kent Shelton, Matt Quinney, Ammon Allen. George Winn and
                         Trish Hatch were excused.

 STAFF:
                         Scott Langford, Larry Gardner, Duncan Murray, Todd Johnson, Julie Davis,
                         Paul Brockbank




The briefing meeting was called to order by Jay Thomas. The agenda was briefly discussed and
clarifying questions were answered.




The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 00 p.m.
1.      Consent Calendar
        Approve Minutes from March 15, 2022

MOTION:
                Matt Quinney moved to approve the minutes from March 15, 2022. The motion
                was seconded by Ammon Allen and passed 4- 0 in favor. Trish Hatch and George
                Winn were absent.



2.
        Jones Landing Rezone; 6835 West 9800 South; Rezone 62 acres from A-1 ( Agriculture 1-
        acre lots) Zone to M-1 ( Light Manufacturing) Zone; Gardner Company/Ben Seastrand
        applicant) [#   25768; parcel 26- 10- 100- 006]

Ben Seastrand, Gardner Company, said the proposal is to rezone 62 acres to M- 1 ( Light
Manufacturing). The property is located adjacent to M- 1 property and is master planned for industrial
uses. They have been working through some of the infrastructure constraints and now they are at a
point to move forward with the zoning request.

Larry Gardner gave an overview of the property and the surrounding uses. The land use map
designation is for light industrial and the M- 1 zoning district fits within that designation. The concept
plan shows two 450, 000 square foot warehouse buildings.


Staff recommended that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to approve the Zoning Map Amendment for Jones Landing located at 6835 West 9800 South.
Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION:
               Matt Quinney moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
               for Jones Landing rezoning 62 acres from A-20 ( Agricultural, 20 acres minimum
               lot size) Zone to M- 1 ( Light                    Zone District located
                                              Manufacturing)                             at   6835 West
 Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 5, 2022
 Page 2



                  9800 South. The motion was seconded by Kent Shelton and passed 4- 0 in favor.
                  George Winn and Trish Hatch were absent.


     3.
          Jones Estates Rezone; 7553 South 2700 West; Rezone . 66 acres from RR-. 5 ( Rural
          Residential half-acre lots) Zone to R-1- 10E ( Single-family residential 10,000 square foot
          lots minimum) Zone; JS Miller Construction/ John Miller(            applicant) [# 26693;   parcel 21-
          28- 451- 001]


John Miller, general contractor for Debra Jones, said that the property has been in the family for many
years and the property owner would like to build her dream home and stay in the area. He felt that
allowing the property to be divided would complete the neighborhood and would remove the farm
buildings and equipment, which would be a positive change for everyone.

Larry Gardner said there is an existing home facing 2700 West and the outbuildings are located to the
east. The property is currently within the medium density residential land use designation, which is
compatible with the rezoning request to R- 1- 10. Although the Planning Commission is not approving a
subdivision tonight, he explained that approval of the zone change would allow for two lots which are
conceptually shown at 12, 000 square feet and 16, 000 square feet. All of the outbuildings will be
removed with development ofthe new lot, but the existing home will remain. He felt that the zoning
will fit in well and round out the neighborhood.


Staff recommended that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for Jones Estates rezoning . 66 acres from RR-. 5A to R- 1- 10E located at 7553 South 2700
West.



Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Dave Vuyk, West Jordan resident, was in support of the request and said it will be a good addition. He
recommended that the setbacks of the new home be compatible with the existing look of the
neighborhood.



Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION:
                  Kent Shelton moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
                  Jones Estates rezoning 0.66 acres from RR-.5A (Rural Residential, 20,000 square
                  foot lot minimum) Zone to R- 1- 10E ( Single- family Residential, 10, 000 square foot
                  lot minimum) Zone located at 7553 South 2700 West. The motion was seconded by
                  Ammon Allen and passed 4- 0 in favor. George Winn and Trish Hatch were
                  absent.




4.
          Text Amendment—Accessory Dwelling Units; Amend the 2009 West Jordan City Code
          Section 13- 5B- 8; city- wide applicability;    City of West Jordan ( applicant) [# 26609]

Larry Gardner explained that an ordinance was passed previously to allow accessory dwelling units. At
that time, it was read in the law that the               commission   and city council could determine
                                             planning
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 5, 2022
Page 3



whether or not the owner had to live on the property, and it was determined that it did not matter.
However, the definition in state code speaks of occupancy by the owner of record. The City felt that it
is best that our code follows state code as closely as possible, so this amendment clarifies that the
owner of record has to live on the property. In addition, another clarification in state law allows for a
home addition to be used as an IADU. This change in city code will allow a homeowner to begin the
ADU approval process with the building permit instead of waiting for a period of time and then
applying for the ADU permit. This will help the owner to know what building requirements are needed
for an ADU before construction and will help the city track the ADU.

Based on the analysis and findings contained in the staff report, staff recommended that the Planning
Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the Text Amendment
regarding Accessory Dwelling Units.

Duncan Murray clarified that the owner of record can live in either the primary dwelling or the
accessory dwelling unit.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Ammon Allen suggested that part 4 the last sentence where is says ' the property owner shall always
reside' be changed to `owner of record occupies', or something similar, in order to reflect the state
code reference more closely.

MOTION:          Ammon Allen moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
                 report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a
                 positive recommendation to the City Council for the Text Amendment regarding
                 Accessory Dwelling Units with the language change as discussed to make it more in
                 line with State Code. The motion was seconded by Jay Thomas and passed 4- 0 in
                 favor. George Winn and Trish Hatch were absent.


5.
         Text Amendment— Development Plan Process and Zoning Administrator Authority;
         Amend the 2009 West Jordan City Code Sections 13- 5C- 7, 13- 51- 13, 13- 5J- 10, 13- 6G-
         17, 13- 6H- 12, 13- 61- 7, 13- 6K-3, and 15- 3- 8; and Enact Sections 13- 7I- 1 through 13- 71-
         5 inclusive; city- wide applicability;   City of West Jordan ( applicant) [#268271

Duncan Murray said each section to be amended is for a different zoning district that has a reference to
the special provisions of the WSPA (West Side Planning Area) zone. This amendment will lift that
reference out and instead refer to the new Section 13- 7I. The amendment will make it easier to find the
provisions for master development plans and agreements. The second change in the code limits the
zoning administrator authority, especially in circumstances where the planning commission or city
council has made special requirements of a development. Changes to those requirements will not fall
under the minor variation definition and can only be changed by returning to the body that imposed the
requirement.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 5, 2022
Page 4



Based on the analysis and findings contained in the staff report, staff recommended that the Planning
Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the Text Amendment
regarding Development Plan Process and Zoning Administrator Authority.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


MOTION:               Matt Quinney moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
                      report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a
                      positive recommendation to the City Council for the Text Amendment regarding
                      Development Plan Process and Zoning Administrator Authority. The motion was
                      seconded by Kent Shelton and passed 4- 0 in favor. George Winn and Trish Hatch
                      were    absent.




MOTION:               Ammon Allen moved to adjourn.


The meeting adjourned at 6: 25 p.m.



                                                       Oa
                                                  JA4 T   r   MAS
                                                  Chair
                                                                                             as   .



         ST: (.....

                      464L4.4.4
                                                                                         r

JU   IE DAVIS
Executive Assistant

Community Development Department

Approved this             I        dayof      r    I                     2022
