MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION HELD JULY 6, 2021 IN THE WEST JORDAN COUNCIL CHAMBERS


PRESENT:           Trish Hatch, Kent Shelton, Jay Thomas, Matt Quinney, Corbin England, Ammon Allen,
                   and Pamela Bloom.


STAFF:             Scott Langford, Larry Gardner, Mark Forsythe, Julie Davis, Duncan Murray ( remotely)

OTHERS:            Mayor Burton, Rosanne Webster, Dale VanWagoner, Jared Mitchell, Cordon Capell



The briefing meeting was called to order by Trish Hatch. The agenda was reviewed. Larry Gardner led
a discussion on State Law Training Requirements.



The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 00 p.m.

1.      Consent Items
         Approve Minutes from June 15, 2021


MOTION:            Corbin England moved to approve the minutes from June 15, 2021. The motion

                   was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7- 0 in favor.


2.       Snugz USA Alcohol Storage Tank; 9258 South Prosperity Road; Conditional Use Permit
         for an 8, 000- gallon storage tank for ethyl alcohol; M- 1 Zone; Snugz/ USA, LLC/ Rosanne
         Webster ( applicant) [# 24458; parcel 26- 02- 354- 001]


Rosanne Webster, applicant, said that they are a supplier in the promotional product industry for
custom marketing products. Last year throughout the pandemic was their biggest sales year for
sanitizer. It came to their attention that they were not storing their alcohol in a fully compliant manner
and due to product demand, they are asking for permission to install an alcohol tank on site. The tank
will be at the northwest corner of their building and will enable ethyl alcohol to be pumped directly
into the compounding area. They currently have 330 employees in the West Jordan facility, which is
down due to the pandemic, but they are hoping that their production demand and number of employees
will increase.    She provided a detailed illustration    of the tank.


Mark Forsythe said that tanks and mechanical equipment are usually permitted in the M- 1 Zone, but
this property is located in Zone 3 of the drinking water source protection overlay district, which
requires approval for businesses using chemicals. There are 6- inch curb walls that protect the
undeveloped ground area. He pointed out the nearest storm drains, which will be protected from the
proposed tank. It is common practice for City Public Works to encourage or require businesses to
create a best management          practices program so the sensitive areas will be protected   from chemicals.
Those practices involve reporting, employee training, preventive maintenance and inspections, etc. An
updated site plan was presented to clarify questions from the Fire Department. Barrier protection
around the tank will be resolved with a 10- foot- tall masonry wall that completely surrounds the tank,
which   also   fulfills   the screening   requirements.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
July 6, 2021
Page 2



Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Conditional Use Permit for the Snugz USA
Alcohol Storage Tank, located at 9258 South Prosperity Road in an M- 1 zone and Drinking Water Source
Protection Overlay Zone, with the Conditions and Requirements of Approval listed below:

Conditions of Approval
1.       The chemical storage tank shall be consistent with the submitted application, letter of intent, best
         management         practices   plan   and   site   plan.

2.       The     chemical    storage    tank shall meet all applicable   Zoning, Building &   Safety, Engineering, Fire
         Department or other pertinent City department requirements.
3.       Best management practices and procedures for chemical leak/ spill containment and cleanup,
         preventive maintenance, employee training, incident reporting and chemical disposal shall be
         implemented.
4.       The chemical storage tank shall be regularly inspected and maintained in good condition.
5.       Spill kits shall be provided within close proximity to the chemical storage tank and shall be
         regularly   maintained.
6.       Dispose of all chemical products properly and in accordance with all applicable local, County, State
         and Federal    requirements.


Requirements of Approval
1.       A masonry wall shall be installed around the chemical storage tank to screen it from the street and
         to provide barrier protection per Fire codes.
2.       A building permit shall be applied for, reviewed and approved by the West Jordan Building&
         Safety Department prior to construction of the storage tank.
3.       The tank must be set back from the exterior building walls and doors in accordance with Fire and
         Building codes and requirements.
4.       Fire suppression systems in the building must be adequate to handle all chemicals stored in the
         tank.

5.       NFPA 704 stickers pertinent to the chemicals stored in the tank shall be affixed to the tank.
6.       Approval of the Conditional Use Permit shall become null and void upon twelve ( 12) months,
         unless a building permit is issued and construction is actually begun within that period and is
         thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
7.       The Conditional Use Permit is subject to review and/ or revocation, in accordance with Section 13-
         7E- 10 of the West Jordan Municipal Code.
8.       The decision of the Planning Commission shall be final and effective 15 days from the date of the
         decision unless an appeal is filed pursuant to Section 15- 5- 2 and Section 15- 5- 5B of the West
         Jordan Municipal Code.


Corbin England asked if the door would seal the containment area.


Mark Forsythe said the steel door will be locked and the fire department will check the seal during their
inspection.



Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Ammon Allen struggled with the feeling that this was an incomplete application until this morning when
the drawings      were submitted.
Planning&      Zoning Commission   Meeting Minutes
July 6, 2021
Page   3



Larry Gardner said that the planning commission is deciding if the use is appropriate within the drinking
water source protection overlay, and the drawings were associated more with the site plan. The application
was not incomplete according to the submittal checklist. He felt that the planning commission has the
information they need to approve the conditional use permit.

Ammon Allen asked if there is a checklist for the planning commission to review when it comes to the
drinking water source protection overlay.

Larry Gardner said that staff can provide it, if requested, but the staff report includes findings for approval.

Ammon Allen said he thinks of containment, emergency protocols, etc. when dealing with water source
protection,    which   are shown   on the plan.



Larry Gardner said that alcohol does not fall into the same category as dry- cleaning solution or pesticides
that pollute the soil and can be washed into the aquifer. Alcohol evaporates more quickly, so it might not
infiltrate the drinking water. The container is a double- walled tank, and the water department has reviewed
and approved the application. Generally, the findings within the staff report are sufficient for a decision by
the planning commission.


MOTION:            Ammon Allen moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
                   report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to approve the
                   Conditional Use Permit for the Snugz USA Alcohol Storage Tank, located at 9258
                   South Prosperity Road in an M- 1 zone and Drinking Water Source Protection
                   Overlay Zone, with the Conditions and Requirements of Approval listed in the staff
                   report. The motion was seconded by Pamela Bloom and passed 7- 0 in favor.




3.         Addenbrook Phase 2 and Phase 5; 6100 West Fallwater Drive; Amended Development

           Plan for increased building height; MFR( WSPA) Zone; Addenbrook Highlands
           Corp./ Richard     Welch (   applicant) [#      23927]

                                                                                    20th
Trish Hatch      stated   that the item would be continued          to the   July          meeting, but they would open the
public comment portion for those in attendance and then the item will be continued.


Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Dale VanWagoner, West Jordan resident, said his biggest concern with the change is how it will affect

the rest of the neighborhood. This section of the development is immediately next to the two- story
neighborhood. A third story for these buildings will become an eyesore and will affect their views. The
developer will leave after everything is built and sold and the residents remain. When he bought the
home, he understood that the structures would be two- story to be more compatible with the character
of the neighborhood.



Jared Mitchell, West Jordan resident, echoed the previous comments. The residents were very involved
with the original approvals, and it was what gave them some comfort when purchasing their home.
This portion of the development is right next to the 2- story homes and will tie into and be considered
part   of the neighborhood.      Other nearby     multi-   family and three- story developments are separated by
 Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
 July 6, 2021
 Page 4




 roads, and they are at a lower elevation. He asked the planning commission to continue to protect the
 two- story designation for the proposed area.

 Cordon Cape11, West Jordan resident, agreed with the other comments. The development plans were
 approved in 2015. During the purchase of his home in 2017 it was assumed that the buildings would be
 two- story as approved. This development is directly adjacent, and a three- story home would make it
 more difficult to feel the privacy and comforts of their yard. He felt that it is unfair at this point to take
 away the assurances that they were given by making changes six years later.

 Further public comment was closed at this point for this item. It will be reopened at the next meeting.
 MOTION:         Matt Quinney moved to continue Addenbrook 2 and 5 amended development plan
                 to the July 20, 2021, meeting. The motion was seconded by Corbin England and
                 passed 7- 0 in favor.




4.        Text Amendment— Accessory Living Quarters -           Removal of Section 13- 8- 17 Accessory
          Living Quarters and amend Section 13- 8- 3 Accessory Uses chart removing Accessory
          Living Quarters and footnote; City-wide applicability; City of West Jordan ( applicant)
            245881

Larry Gardner said the approval of the new ADU ordinance made this section of the code obsolete.
The new ordinance will allow this type of use with fewer restrictions.


Staff recommended that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council.


Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION:          Pamela Bloom moved that the Planning Commission forward a positive
                 recommendation to the City Council for the Text Amendment regarding Accessory
                 Living Quarters. The motion was seconded by Ammon Allen and passed 7- 0 in
                 favor.




5.        Text Amendment—
                               Alcoholic Beverage Control and Uses; Amend the 2009 City Code by
          adopting Title 17 Alcoholic Beverage Control, as a set of land use regulations; and by
          amending Sections 13- 2- 3 Definitions, 13- 5C- 4 Planned Development Zones Permitted
          and Conditional   Uses, 13- 5D- 2 Office and Research    Park Zones Permitted      and
          Conditional   Uses, 13- 5E- 3 Commercial   Zones Permitted     and Conditional    Uses, 13- 5F- 2

          Manufacturing Zones Permitted and Conditional Uses, 13- 5I- 4 City Center Zones
          Permitted and Conditional Uses, 13- 5J- 4 West Side Planning Area Zoning District
          Permitted and Conditional Uses, 13- 6B- 3 Redwood Overlay District Permitted and
Planning&      Zoning Commission    Meeting Minutes
July 6, 2021
Page 5



         Conditional Uses, and 13- 6G- 4 Transit Station Overlay District Permitted and
         Conditional Uses; City- wide applicability; City of West Jordan ( applicant) [# 23114]

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission continue the Text Amendment regarding Alcoholic
Beverage Control and Uses to the July 20, 2021, meeting.

MOTION:            Corbin England moved that the Planning Commission continue the Text
                   Amendment regarding Alcoholic Beverage Control and Uses to the July 20, 2021,
                   meeting. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7- 0 in favor.



6.       Text Amendment— Design Guidelines;                 Amend the 2009 City Code Sections 13- 5B- 6:
         Residential Exterior Materials and Design adding part ( D)( 2) and adding clarifying
         language; and 13- 5B- 6: Residential Exterior Materials and Design adding part ( A)( 1)
         Applicability and adding clarifying language; city- wide applicability; City of West Jordan
           applicant) [#   24587]



Larry Gardner said the state legislature passed a law that limits the abilities of cities to control square
footage of dwellings and adopting design standards in some instances. The first area of the code is the
minimum living space requirement. If a subdivision was approved prior to May 5, 2021, then the city
can still enforce this table. From now on, homes will only have to meet a 1, 000 square foot minimum
set by the state. The next area deals with residential exterior materials and design. He explained the
current masonry or substituted design element requirements. The legislature has taken away the ability
of cities to adopt residential exterior materials ordinances. However, it can be enforced in certain
instances. For example, developments that were previously approved, in a planned community zone,
under a development plan, or if the property receives an increase in density. The proposed changes
tonight will keep city ordinance current with the recent state law mandates.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council.



Jay Thomas asked if this would affect setbacks or the requirement for a two- car garage.

Larry Gardner said no, this is just for. design or architectural features.

Pamela Bloom suggested that staff inform the Design Review Committee                of these changes.


Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


MOTION:            Jay Thomas moved that the Planning Commission forward a positive
                   recommendation to the City Council for the Text Amendment regarding Design
                    Standards.     The   motion   was   seconded   by Matt Quinney and passed 7- 0 in favor.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
July 6, 2021
Page6

The Commissioners should let staff know of any suggested topics for the combined
Council/Commission workshop in August.

MOTION:        Matt Quinney moved to adjourn.

The meeting adjourned at 6:32 p.m.




                                               Chair




Executive Assistant
Community Development Department

Approved this ~ 'O                                               , 2021.
