MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION          HELD    OCTOBER       19, 2021   IN THE WEST      JORDAN     COUNCIL   CHAMBERS


PRESENT:        Trish Hatch, Kent Shelton, Jay Thomas, Corbin England, Ammon Allen, and Pamela
                Bloom. Matt Quinney was excused.

STAFF:          Scott Langford, Duncan Murray, Brian Berndt, Nathan Nelson, Julie Davis, Paul
                Brockbank


OTHERS:         Janet Hamilton ( remotely), Randall McDougal,          Ryan Naylor, Bradley Carter, Tom
                Romney



The briefing meeting was called to order by Trish Hatch. The agenda was reviewed and clarifying
questions were answered. An added condition of approval was recommended for Item# 4 that approval

is subject to completion of the agreement between the city and the developer. Nathan Nelson provided
training on the purposes and operations of the Engineering Division.



The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 00 p. m.

1.     Consent Items
       Approve Minutes from October 5, 2021


MOTION:         Corbin England moved to approve the minutes from October 5, 2021 as listed in

                the staff packet. The motion was seconded by Ammon Allen and passed 6- 0 in
                favor. Matt Quinney was absent.


2.     McDougal Funeral Home; 3182 West 9000 South; Preliminary and Final Site Plan and
       Conditional Use Permit for Funeral Home; C- G Zone; McDougal West Jordan Holding,
       LLC/ Randall        McDougal (    applicant) [#   24383; parcel 27- 04- 152- 014]


Randall McDougal, applicant, said the property was recently rezoned for the purposes of building a
funeral home.


Brian Berndt gave an overview of the application for preliminary and final site plan and conditional
use permit on approximately 4 acres. The building footprint is roughly 13, 000 square feet and total
square footage including the lower levels is about 25, 000. He explained that the existing access points
from 9000 South and 3200 West will be shared with the church through a cross- access agreement. The

landscaping plan includes a meditation garden with benches and walking trails, which is a nice feature.
The building is 271/2 feet tall at the highest point. Building materials include decorative stone, brick
veneers, and stucco. The Design Review Committee appreciated the architecture and design. The

building includes   a porte- cochere    for drop off. Landscaping is 46% of the overall project, which is

more than they would typically see.


Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the preliminary and final site plan and
conditional use permit for the McDougal        Funeral Home; 3182 West 9000 South with the conditions of
approval   listed below:
Planning&      Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
October 19, 2021
Page 2




1.        Planning Commission approvals do not include Public Safety, Fire, Building and Safety, or
          Engineering approval.
2.        Per section 15- 5- 3: Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
          aggrieved by any administrative decision or action of city staff or the planning commission
          on matters pertaining to the interpretation and application of title 12, 13, 14, or 15 of this
          code. The appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days following the decision at issue. The
          person filing the appeal shall file written notice with the Zoning Administrator and with the
          Board of Adjustment specifying the reasons for the appeal.
3.        A City- approved cross access easement between the applicant and the adjacent church property
          owner must be fully executed and rerecorded in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder
          prior to final approval, related to the applicant' s site access from 9000 South.


It was clarified that the lower levels are used for storage, assembly rooms, and other operations. There
is also an upstairs apartment.


Kent Shelton asked if embalming and cremation services would be performed at this location.

Randall McDougal said they would eventually like to have this location handle more of the operations,
including embalming. They had considered cremations for this location, but they obtained another
location in Taylorsville for those services, so it is not currently the plan.

Kent Shelton asked if there are precautions in place for safe storage of embalming chemicals.

Brian Berndt said all businesses need to comply with fire department regulations for chemical storage.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Janet Hamilton (via Zoom) stated that they have lived at the property across from the funeral home for
17 years. She was displeased with the way Granger Medical was built in their backyard and included a
giant lighted billboard. They didn' t complain at the time of development because zoning was
professional office, but the planning commission needs to stop approving billboards next to homes.
They already have to deal with 9000 South traffic. The Fairchild addition is an eyesore, and the
residents are upset about it. Now the subject property has been rezoned from large lots to commercial
and there will be a depressing funeral home that she is not happy about. She felt that it would have
worked as large lot residential. The idea of dead bodies near their home is upsetting her kids, but she
for sure does not want cremation services. She asked if there is going to be a big lighted billboard on
the property.


Duncan Murray provided an explanation of how billboards are approved and allowed under State Law.
Once they area approved it is almost impossible to move one. The city can adopt ordinances to
minimize the potential for future billboards.


Scott Langford thought that Ms. Hamilton was commenting on a digital monument sign for Granger
Medical. There would be no way under the current ordinance to approve a billboard at the subject
location. Any business signage would have to meet the current code requirements for size, digital copy,
etc.   Signs   are   filed and approved   under a separate   permit.
Planning&     Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
October   19, 2021
Page 3




Trish Hatch sympathized with Ms. Hamilton. She said the church owned the property and sold it to the
funeral home business, and a property owner has the right to develop. She appreciated the engagement
and    comments.




Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Ammon Allen          said   city   code   requires   that   not   less than 15%   of the site be landscaped, but no more
than   20% of the landscaping can be in lawn, sod, or turf He though the plan showed more than 20%.


Brian Berndt said he thought it was near 20% turf, but he will make sure the requirement is met by

reducing it, if necessary while keeping the integrity of the landscape plan. The meditation garden was
an addition    to the design        and   may have     extended      the amount   of turf. The   plan   shows   100% water

conserving materials and plants, which is a big plus toward meeting the ordinance. He reiterated the
applicant' s statement that there will not be cremation services.


MOTION:              Kent Shelton moved to approve the Preliminary and Final Site Plan and
                     Conditional Use Permit for the McDougal Funeral Home located at 3182 West
                     9000 South in the C- G ( General Commercial) Zone District subject to the three

                     conditions of approval listed in the staff report, adding:
                     4.      The amount of sod shall be consistent with City Code.
                     The motion was seconded by Trish Hatch and passed 6- 0 in favor. Matt Quinney
                     was    absent.




3.        Valvoline Instant Oil Change; 7141 South Redwood Road; Preliminary Site Plan and
          Conditional Use Permit for Vehicle Service and Repair, Limited; SC- 2 Zone; NovaSource
          Enterprises, LLC/ Bradley J. Carter ( applicant) [# 25085; parcel 21- 27- 201- 095]


Bradley Carter, applicant, explained that this site will be developed in conjunction with the commercial
property on Beamon Street. The site has 99 feet of frontage and is 255 feet deep. Because of the cell
tower location there are development constraints for siting most buildings. However, it works well for
Valvoline, which is a small, two- bay building with a 1659 square- foot footprint. The property owner
also purchased the rear 69 feet of the Velarde parcel that will act as a cross- access to the coffee shop
site to the south. He said bidding for both Valvoline and the coffee shop is at the same time. There will
be one general contractor selected for timing and efficiency. UDOT has approved the access permit for
a wider approach onto Redwood Road. As part of that permit, they are required to sign a UDOT
agreement that when the property to the south is developed the curb cut will be widened and it will be
the shared access for the Velarde parcel. This project lends itself well to stacking, and the building was
pushed to 20 feet to accommodate any future road widening. If the road is widened, then the site will
still give enough area for vehicle circulation. They have also submitted for building permits and
anticipate a fourth quarter ground break with 120- day buildout.

Brian Berndt said the conditional use permit is for limited vehicle service and repair. Access will be
from Redwood Road on the south end of the property. Hours of operation will be 7 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Quick oil change operations allow customers to remain in the car during service. The highest point of
the building is just under 25 feet. Materials include decorative stone, cement board, and metal.
Planning&      Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
October 19, 2021
Page 4




Fourteen parking stalls have been provided, which is six more than required. Twenty- four percent of
the site is landscaped. An existing solid masonry wall will remain and act as a buffer and boundary
between this site and the residential property. There is also a five- foot landscape buffer on the south.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the preliminary site plan and conditional
use permit for Valvoline Instant Oil Change 7141 South Redwood Road with the conditions of
approval listed below.


Preliminary Site Plan
1.
          The placement of parking lot lighting shall match the photometric site plan.
2.
          All parking lot lighting shall be reflected away from adjoining residential lots and shielded to
          reduce or eliminate up lighting.
3.        The cross- access easement and the pedestrian access easement shall be recorded prior to final
          site plan approval with parcel 21- 27- 201- 180- 0000 7159 South Redwood Road.
4.
          Address all redline comments from the Planning, Engineering, and Fire Departments.
5.
          Planning Commission approvals do not include Public Safety, Fire, Building and Safety, or
          Engineering approval.
6.
          Additional 20- foot landscaped area shall be maintained along Redwood Road for future
          implementation of Redwood Corridor Plan.

Conditional Use Permit
1.
          Daily hours of operation restricted to between 7 a. m. and 10 p.m.
2.
          All materials used for this business shall be stored inside the building.
3.        All solid waste shall be disposed of in the required dumpster.
4.        All oil and other fluids shall be stored in containers approved for such fluids and shall be
          disposed of or recycled as required by law.

Kent Shelton was concerned with the proximity of the access, which is right next to another
commercial access. He asked if there is a minimum spacing requirement.

Brian Berndt said there is, but UDOT controls that. If all of the properties in the area were just starting
to be designed, then there would be appropriate spacing distances. However, there are several narrow
properties that have been granted access to Redwood Road. This is not an ideal location, but UDOT is
allowing it.

Kent Shelton asked if they could build the access off of the other commercial drive.

Nathan Nelson said the city traffic engineer has asked that an honest effort be made to combine with
the Smith' s driveway on the north side, but it is ultimately UDOT' s decision. He thought that there
were also some issues getting cooperation with the property owners.
The rear cross- access area was pointed out.


Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further   public   comment   was   closed   at   this point for this item.
Planning&       Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
October   19, 2021
Page 5



Bradley Carter clarified that although the city would allow hours of operation between 7 a.m. and 10
p. m., Valvoline will actually operate Monday through Friday from 8 a. m. to 6 p. m. and Saturday from
9 a.m. to 5 p. m. They are closed on Sunday. He explained that UDOT also approved a variance request
for the access that is within 100 feet of the one to the north. The issue with the access to the north is an
existing 8- foot- high masonry wall that would have to be removed and customers would have to drive
behind the cell tower, which would be confusing for ingress and egress. The existing location provides
accessibility and visibility and ease of access, and they feel that the cross access will be a big plus for
all of the developments.


MOTION:              Jay Thomas moved to approve the Preliminary Site Plan for Valvoline Instant Oil
                     Change    at 7141 South Redwood          Road subject to the requirements        of approval   1

                     through 6 as listed in the staff report. The motion was seconded by Pamela Bloom
                     and passed 6- 0 in favor. Matt Quinney was absent.

MOTION:              Jay Thomas moved to approve the Conditional Use Permit for Valvoline Instant
                     Oil Change at 7141 South Redwood                Road subject to the conditions   of approval   1

                     through 4 as listed in the staff report. The motion was seconded by Pamela Bloom
                     and passed 6- 0 in favor. Matt Quinney was absent.


4.        Zone 5 4MG Tank; Approx. 9400 South 7300 West; Preliminary Site Plan and
                    Use Permit; A- 20 Zone; Ivory Homes/ Bryon Prince ( applicant) [# 25348;
          Conditional
          parcel     26- 09- 100- 005]



Tom Romney, Focus Engineering, said they have been helping Ivory on the project. The tank is part of
the current water master plan for Zone 5. The site is 2. 9 acres on the Vicky Jones property. Part of the
review is to find the exact location and elevation that will service Zone 5. The parcel will front the
future master planned 9400 South, which will give permanent access. There will be a wrought iron
fence with decorative pillars along the future right-of-way and a black vinyl chain- link fence around
the rest of the tank perimeter for visibility and safety. Landscaping is typical of what they might see at
other tank locations.


Corbin England asked if he was agreeable to an added condition regarding completion of an agreement
for the water tank funding between Ivory and the City.

Tom Romney said yes.

Brian Berndt showed the location of the tank and reviewed the landscaping. The tank will be 25 feet
high, but between 5 and 15 feet of the tank will be visible once it is buried.


Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the preliminary site plan and conditional
use for the Zone 5 South, 4- million Gallon Water Tank approximate location 9400 South 7300 West
subject to the conditions listed below:


Preliminary Site Plan
1.      The proposed development shall meet all applicable 2009 City Code requirements.
2.        All   changes   to the site shall   be consistent   with   the   Site Plan   application.
Planning&     Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
October   19, 2021
Page 6



3.
          An approved preliminary site plan shall remain valid for one year following the date of the
          approval.

4.        Approval of a Final Site Plan shall become null and void if development does not commence
          within two ( 2) years of final site plan approval ( 13. 7B. 5).


Conditional Use Permit
1.
          Planning Commission approvals do not include Public Safety, Fire, Building and Safety, or
          Engineering approval.
2.        For public safety, the entire site shall be enclosed by a decorative wrought iron fence with
          masonry pillars or other fence as approved by the Zoning Administrator.

Trish Hatch asked how the tank will acquire water.


Nathan Nelson said the water is pumped from major connection points with Jordan Valley Water
Conservancy District. Along with the tank there will be a pump station, water pipes, main lines,
drainpipes, and a distribution network, so it will be good to have it near a major road and at a good
elevation. The tank will provide for all homes in Zone 5, which is a very significant number of
properties.




Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


MOTION:              Ammon Allen moved to approve the Preliminary Site Plan for the Zone 5 South, 4
                     million Gallon Water Tank approximate location 9400 South 7300 West in the A-
                     20 Zone subject to the requirements 1 through 4 listed in thestaff report, adding:
                     5.    Approval is pending until completion of the agreement with the City for
                              funding of the water tank.
                     The motion was seconded by Jay Thomas and passed 6- 0 in favor. Matt Quinney
                     was   absent.




MOTION:              Ammon Allen moved to approve the Conditional             Use Permit for the Zone 5 South,
                     4 million Gallon Water Tank approximate           location 9400 South 7300 West in the A-

                     20 Zone subject to the conditions 1 and 2 listed in the staff report, adding:
                     3.    Approval is pending until completion of the agreement with the City for
                              funding of the water tank.
                     The motion was seconded by Jay Thomas and passed 6- 0 in favor. Matt Quinney
                     was   absent.




5.        Text Amendment—            Mayoral Appointments Amend the 2009 West Jordan City Code
          Mayoral Appointments and Council Advise and Consent Sections 1- 7- 4, 1- 7- 8, 5- 5- 5,
          and   9- 4- 3;   City- wide applicability;   City of West Jordan ( applicant) [# 25534]

Duncan Murray explained that Titles 5 and 9 are land use titles which currently have some
appointment      provision     in them. Staff is taking the mayoral   appointment   provisions   out   of the   land use
Planning&       Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
October    19, 2021
Page   7




titles and placing them in Section 1- 7- 8 for consolidation purposes. He explained the other points of
the amendment.



Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION:
                      Corbin England moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
                      for the Text Amendment— Mayoral Appointments as listed in the staff report. The

                      motion was seconded by Pamela Bloom and passed 6- 0 in favor. Matt Quinney was
                      absent.




MOTION:               Trish Hatch moved to adjourn.


The meeting adjourned at 6: 46 p.m.


                                                          gni Ill
                                                     RISH    A    H
                                                    Chair


AT         T:




JU /       DAVIS

Executive Assistant
Community Development Department

Approved this          /   1    day of   /   B1A-(!? g,   h,2y-        2021
                                                                                                                                   10/ 20/ 2021




                                WestJordan
                     Planning Commission Meeting

                                    October             19, 2021

      moi/           y



                                                                                                                           u
                                                                                                                               r
                                                                                      lig


                                                                                                                    ice'



                                                                    fi




                                                              acs        .
                                    fi ,




                                                                                                          0   \




1




              Engnei               ering Department                                                       `\
                                                                                                          s„-_--    „,,„
                                                                                                                        0„     --------,-,-
                                Nate Nelson,       P.E.— City Engineer


                     Cindy Nielson— Engineering Development Coordinator                                            0:- ,- -




       Engineering    Review Team                                            Engineering Inspectors   }

                                                                    Neil Denison         Lead Inspector
    Todd Johnson, P. E.— Senior Engineer

    Bill Baranowski, P. E.— Traffic Engineer                        Brian Montgomery

    Krista Riester— Assistant   Engineer                             Jeremy Robertson
                                                                     Rod Niemann
    Laurie Thompson      Engineering       Assistant
                                                                                                                    r



                                                                     Craig Peterson




                                                                                                          off




2




                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                 10/ 20/ 2021




    Development Responsibilities                                                                       i--,-,        t-   ,-       ___


                                                                                               1
     Development        Process                                Final Plan Approval
                                                                                                                i",
                                                                                                                  7,-, "'=   *
     Pre- Application Conference                               Bond Calculations

     Review of Preliminary         Plans                       Plat Review and Recording

     Planning Commission Review                                Pre Construction

     Review of Final Plans                                o.   Project Inspections




                                                                                                                     z



                                                                                       i




3




                    Applicable City Codes
                                                                                           4                    f/

              Title 5              mO              rdinance



              Title 8——PublicContaInfrastructure                                               i


                    Development Standards

               I.   Bonding for Public Improvements
                    Streetlights
                                                                                                   4
                    Hillside Development                                                               1

               I.   Encroachment Permits

         I.   Title 9— Utilities

              Title 11— Land Disturbance      Ordinance

                    Land Disturbance Permit

              Title 14— Subdivision Ordinance
                                                                                                           t,




4




                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                         10/ 20/ 2021




            Specifications
       Encroachment         Permits

       Land Disturbance        Permits

            Land Disturbance Design                                   t

            Construction     Standards                                    t,

       Public Improvement Standards, Specifications, and Plans

            Road and Bridge
                                                                                     s




            Culinary Water
            Sewer

        I. Storm drain


                                                                                 e




5




                                                                 t




                                                                 t



    Streamlined Process
    Enhanced   Pre- Application       Conference

    Project Final Approval

        Most developments     accomplished   by Staff

    Majority of Engineering details are not rewired until
    submission of final plans




                                                                     f7":      17--. r,_,„_:,-
6




                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                        10/ 20/ 2021




                  Current MaJ'or Develo p ment
                                                           Commercial                         Industrial,
             Residential

    Jones    Ranch— Subdivision                      Highlands Landing                 6200 South Airport Rom

        Multiple Phases                                     Culvers                    Sunbelt Rental

    Wood Ranch— Subdivision                                 Pizza Hut                  B Jackson Construction ;:

        Multiple Phases                                     Starbucks                  Bedrock Quartz                    i4,    i_
                                                                                                                          1,.,,,,,
    Copper Rim— Subdivision                                 Sherwin- Williams          Sprinkler   Supply
                                                                                                                             v,
                                                                                                                                        7?
        Multiple Phases                                     Mister Carwash        P.   Misfits Market
                                                                                                                         0%%;,% -   -

    Oquirrh West— Subdivision                        Les Schwab                        Amazon

        Multiple Phases                              Nielsen' s Custard                VAST Data Center
                                                                                                            fr
    Jordan    Valley TOD— Apartments                 Banfleld Pet Hospital

        Multiple Phases                              Think Storage




7




                            Other Responsibilities
                           Engineering    code revisions
                           Update&    revisions to Engineering Standards and Specifications
                           Conflict resolutions with Developers and Residents

                    I.     Coordination    with outside agencies

                               UDOT                                                                                 r;

                                                                                                            1
                               Salt Lake County

                               Neighboring Cities

                    0.     Master Plan updates
                                                                                                                    j

                           Flood Plan Manger




                                                                                                                i




8




                                                                                                                                                   4
