MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION HELD FEBRUARY 1, 2022, IN THE WEST JORDAN COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PRESENT:       Jay Thomas, Kent Shelton, Matt Quinney, Trish Hatch, Corbin England, Ammon Allen,
               and George Winn.


STAFF:         Larry Gardner, Duncan Murray, Mark Forsythe, Brian Berndt, Nathan Nelsdn, Julie
               Davis, Lisa Elgin( remotely), Paul Brockbank (remotely)

OTHERS:        Paul Duehlmeier, Shane Sanders, Jane Herrin



The briefing meeting was called to order by Jay Thomas. The agenda was reviewed and clarifying
questions were answered.




The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 00 p.m.

1.     Approve Minutes from January 18, 2022

MOTION:        Trish Hatch moved to approve the minutes from January 18, 2022. The motion
               was seconded by Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.


2.     Next Step Warehouse; 9456 South Bagley Park Road; Preliminary Site Plan for
       review of street-facing bay doors and fence exceeding 8 feet in height, and
       Administrative Conditional Use Permit for Outdoor Storage; M- 1 Zone; Next Step
       Warehouse/ Chivam Shah ( applicant) [# 25845; parcel 26- 12- 126- 021]


Chivam Shah, applicant, said they have built these small warehouses throughout Utah. Each space has
an overhead door, a man door, and a window. The spaces are attracting small businesses such as
Amazon fulfillment shops that ship directly from a warehouse. The proposal has 40 units with 65
parking stalls. Other small businesses such as cabinet shops, drapery manufacturers, and some
automotive uses are attracted to this type of building. The structures are pre- engineered metal buildings
with concrete storage yards, and good landscaping. He appreciated working with the entire West
Jordan team. Unit sizes are 30' x 35' and 50' x 35'. They feel that by providing small business options
it will help the economy in West Jordan. CC& R' s will regulate development and uses, and a property
management company will police the site and operations. They believe that this project will improve
the whole neighborhood and bring small businesses and their families to West Jordan.

Kent Shelton asked why they need the extended wall height of 9 feet. He also asked for clarification of
access into the year yards.


Chivam Shah said the zoning code required at minimum of a six- foot wall for screening of the bay
doors and he would also like it for security. There will be a 3- foot retaining wall with a 6- foot
decorative masonry wall on top of that. Access to the rear storage yards will be through the overhead
doors in front and back.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 1, 2022
Page 2


Mark Forsythe said that industrial site plans are normally reviewed at the staff level, but the Planning
Commission has to give approval for a wall that exceeds 8 feet in height, for bay doors facing the road,
and for outdoor storage.    The M- 1 Zone allows warehousing as a permitted use and outdoor storage as
a conditional use, so the proposal is in line with other uses in the area. The nearest residential area is
well over 500 feet away. Most of the bay doors will be facing in toward the property, but the outer
most building along Bagley Park Road will have some street- facing bay doors. The facade has been
dressed up, including full height columns every 100 feet, wainscot, and colored metal siding. The 6-
foot wall at the base of the building will screen most of the bay doors and combined with the retaining
wall the doors will likely not be seen. There is just one section of the wall facing Bagley Park Road
that will be taller than 6 feet. He felt that the current wall design is at a perfect height. The wall has to
be at least 10 feet back from the sidewalk in the clear vision zone, which also applies to trees and tall
structures. The proposed outdoor storage area is significantly reduced from the existing condition of
the property. Storage must be kept behind the front face of the building, which is the frontage along
Wells Park Road. The storage areas will be paved to protect the groundwater and will be properly
screened.




Based on the findings set forth in the staff report, staff recommended that the Planning Commission
grant approval for the Preliminary Site Plan and the Administrative Conditional Use Permit for outdoor
storage for Next Step Warehouse located at 9456 South Bagley Park Road in the M- 1 zone with the
Conditions and Requirements      of Approval listed below:


Preliminary Site Plan
Conditions of Approval:
1.       The loading bay doors facing Bagley Park Road shall be screened from the street with a
         masonry wall that is at least 6 feet tall.
2.       The height of the masonry wall panels shall not exceed 6 feet above the highest finished grade.

Requirements of Approval:
 1.      Comply with all applicable requirements of the West Jordan City Code.
2.       All redline comments shall be addressed and resolved prior to final approvals.
3.       The Preliminary Site Plan is valid for one( 1) year following the date of approval by the
         Planning Commission.
4.       Comply with all requirements pertaining to the West Jordan Engineering Department, Fire
         Department, Building&      Safety Department and all other relevant city departments.

Administrative Conditional Use Permit
Conditions of Approval:
 1.      Both storage yards shall be screened from the public right of way by a masonry wall.
2.       Slats providing opaque screening must be installed on the chain link fencing running parallel to
         the south property line. Any damaged slats must be repaired or replaced by the owner.
 3.      All materials, equipment, tools, trailers, excavating vehicles, etc. must be stored inside the
         buildings or within the fenced- in storage yards at all times.
 4.      Material stacks, vehicles or equipment that have a total height that is taller than the fence shall
         be set back a minimum of 20 feet from all walls and fences.
 5.      Motor vehicles must be parked or stored on a paved asphalt or concrete surface at all times.
 6.      The outdoor storage    yards   shall   be kept clear of weeds, trash, and debris.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 1, 2022
Page 3



7.       Storage of hazardous or toxic materials or any material defined by City ordinance or State law
         to be a nuisance is prohibited.


Requirements of Approval:
1.       The Administrative Conditional Use Permit is subject to review and/ or revocation in
         accordance with Section 13- 7E- 10 of the West Jordan Municipal Code.
2.       Any changes to the site shall be consistent with the Application, Letter of Intent, and Site Plan.
         Deviations from these plans must be reviewed by the City of West Jordan.

Matt Quinney said he would like to have the application as part of the packet.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


MOTION:            Ammon Allen moved, based on the fmdings set forth in the staff report, to approve
                   the Preliminary Site Plan for Next Step Warehouse located at 9456 South Bagley
                   Park Road in the M- 1 zone with the Requirements       of Approval listed on page 2 of
                   the staff report. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7- 0 in
                   favor.


MOTION:            Ammon Allen moved, based on the findings set forth in the staff report, to approve
                   the Administrative Conditional Use Permit for outdoor storage for Next Step
                   Warehouse located at 9456 South Bagley Park Road in the M-1 zone with the
                   Conditions and Requirements of Approval listed in the staff report. The motion
                   was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7- 0 in favor.


3.       Mountain America Credit Union; 5572 West 9000 South; Preliminary Site Plan; P-
         C Zone; Sanders Associates Architects/ M. Shane Sanders ( applicant) I# 25953;
         parcel 26- 01- 153- 036]


Shane Sanders, applicant, explained the proposal. A shared access with the property to the north will
be from 5600 West. There will be two drive- through lanes and one ATM lane. The single- story
building is 4200 square feet with natural stone from Southern Utah on the exterior along with painted
lap siding, metal panels, and glazing. The center lobby is very transparent from both sides. This design
is a new prototype that has been used for about 1 ' h years. Exceptional landscaping will be provided.

Kent Shelton asked if there will be a future access from 9000 South.


Shane Sanders said UDOT will not allow an access off of 9000 South. An easement is in place for a
potential access, but that will not be allowed.


Brian Berndt said the site is approximately one acre in size. Staff appreciated that the building was
moved    closer   to the intersection with parking in back. The highest point   of the shed   roof   is 28 feet tall.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 1, 2022
Page 4



Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Preliminary Site Plan for Mountain
America Credit Union located at 5572 West 9000 South in a Planned Community (P- C Zone) subject
to the approval requirements listed below:


1.       An approved preliminary site plan shall remain valid for one year following the date of the
         approval.

2.       Planning Commission approvals do not include Public Safety, Fire, Building and Safety, or
         Engineering approval.

Ammon Allen asked who will be landscaping the stem portion of the flag lot.

Brian Berndt said that would be with development of the other property. He explained that originally
there was going to be a shared access to be improved with development of the north property, but that
is no longer an option so the credit union will not landscape it.


Kent Shelton was concerned with the potential of southbound traffic on 5600 West making a U-turn
into 9000 South in order to get to the property. He asked if a ' No U-turn' sign could be installed.

Nathan Nelson said a U- turn is not illegal at that location, but he would check with what the traffic
laws allow and with what the traffic engineer recommends. The best thing would probably be to
monitor the intersection to see how many cars are making that motion because it could be a concern.
There might be a way to provide a three- quarter turn when the property to the north develops.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


MOTION:              Corbin England moved to approve the Preliminary Site Plan for Mountain
                     America Credit Union located at 5572 West 9000 South in a Planned Community
                     P-C Zone) zoning district subject to the approval conditions 1 and 2 listed in the
                     staff report. The motion was seconded by Ammon Allen and passed 7- 0 in favor.


4.        PHD Estates Rezone; 1517 West 8600 South; Rezone 1. 05 acres from RR- 1A ( Rural
          Residential 1- acre minimum lots) Zone to R-1- 8C ( Single- family residential 8,000
          square foot lots) Zone; P. H.D. Construction/ Paul H. Duehlmeier ( applicant)
            25731; parcel 27- 03- 201- 016]


Jane Herrin, speaking for the applicant Paul Duehlmeier, reviewed the five criteria as listed in the staff
report. The request is consistent with the goals and policies of the General Plan and the property is
master planned for medium density residential. The proposed R- 1- 8 Zone matches the zoning to the
east and is less dense than the R-3- 8 zoning to the south. The applicant will be asking for four lots on
the property. They do not believe that the change would have any adverse effects to the neighboring
properties. The average lot size is just more than 10, 000 square feet. The standards within the zoning
code for the R- 1- 8 zone ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the residents. The application has
been reviewed by the Engineering Department and Fire Marshal who determined there are adequate
public utilities     to service   the property.
 Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
 February 1, 2022
Page 5




Kent Shelton asked if there was a particular benefit with how the concept lots are laid out.

Paul Duehlmeier said it is to maintain the required 75 feet of lot width.

Lisa Elgin pointed out the lots to be rezoned, including two small properties owned by the City. In
2018 the existing house was renovated. Just before the remodel and since that time, code enforcement
has opened five different cases ranging from living in an RV on the property to storing inoperable
vehicles, debris, and improper storage of boats and vehicles. Mr. Duehlmeier will be required to
dedicated 18 feet along the north and 10 feet along the east, so no more than five lots would be
allowed. The applicant has indicated that he would only ask for four lots, all of which would be equal
to or larger than the lots to the east. Staffbelieves that the rezoning and subsequent subdivision of the
property will create a buffer between the R-3- 8 lots and the larger rural residential lots and will clean
up the property and bring the neighborhood standards up.

Jay Thomas asked what the future use of the city property will be with this rezoning.
Lisa Elgin said it is currently zoned as high density, but it will partially be used for sidewalk and
parkstrip.


Kent Shelton asked if the existing home would remain.

Lisa Elgin said that Mr. Duehlmeier currently has building permits to add on to the home.

Trish Hatch asked if the lots to the west will be landlocked if they want to subdivide.

Lisa Elgin said the lots would have access from 8600 South and 8660 South and could easily divide
into two lots.


Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION:          Kent Shelton moved, based on the analysis and fmdings contained in the staff
                 report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a
                 positive recommendation to the City Council for PHD Estates; 1517 West 8600
                 South; P.H.D. Construction/ Paul H. Duehlmeier ( applicant) rezoning 1. 143 acres
                 from R-3- 8 and RR- 1A Zones to R- 1- 8C Zone. The motion was seconded by Trish
                 Hatch and passed 7- 0 in favor.

MOTION:          Matt Quinney moved to adjourn.


The meeting adjourned    at   6: 42 p. m.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 1, 2022
Page 6


                                                                   i




                                              JAY     HGS
                                              Chair




J/   IE DAVIS
Executive Assistant

Community   Development    Department                              t         e7,7`- o-        1

Approved this   /   5     day of     e- b r u&
                                   t"-                      2022       t'_


                                                                                         F.
                                                                                         r.
