MINUTES       OF THE REGULAR              MEETING   OF THE WEST         JORDAN       PLANNING   AND ZONING
COMMISSION          HELD JULY 20, 2021 IN THE WEST JORDAN                   COUNCIL     CHAMBERS


PRESENT:          Trish Hatch, Kent Shelton, Jay Thomas, Matt Quinney, Corbin England, Ammon Allen,
                  and Pamela     Bloom.


STAFF:            Scott Langford, Larry Gardner, Mark Forsythe, Julie Davis, Duncan Murray

OTHERS:           Bill
                     Ramsey( remotely), Kelvin Green, Mike Canning, Harmony Mitchell, Cordon
                  Capell, Ryan Schmidt, Carly Lewis, Evelyn Thomas ( remotely), Rich Welch




The briefing meeting was called to order by Trish Hatch. Training from Assistant City Attorney
Duncan Murray was provided regarding illegal exactions.



The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 00 p. m.

1.        Approve Minutes from July 6, 2021

MOTION:           Matt Quinney moved to approve the minutes from July 6, 2021. The motion was
                  seconded by Ammon Allen and passed 7- 0 in favor.


2.        Schmidt' s Farm and Greenhouse Expansion; 9020 South 2200 West; Temporary Use
          Permit for Produce Stand and Expanded Activities; SC- 1 Zone; Ryan Schmidt
           applicant) [#    24704; parcel 27- 04- 426- 008]


Ryan Schmidt, applicant, said their produce stand has been operating in this same location for more
than 16 years, along with a you- pick pumpkin patch and activities. They hope to continue with those
same activities along with a hayride and straw maze and to make sure that everything is approved.
Hours of operation begin at 9: 00 a. m. on weekdays and 8: 00 a. m. on Saturdays.


Mark Forsythe said the farmer' s market started out as a small produce stand and has grown in

popularity over the years with expanded activities that have extended beyond the scope of the original
approval and site plan, which is the reason for this review. The 9- acre parcel has been an agricultural

use for many decades. In the past 10 years it has been used as an on-again, off-again temporary use
location. The nearest residential use is 110 feet to the north across 9000 South. Temporary uses are
allowed in all zoning districts. He showed the site plan that identifies activities such as a farmer' s
market, pumpkin patch, hay bale maze, a new sunflower maze, animal display and feeding area, tractor
rides, and live music. Parking has been reviewed, and the applicant explained to staff that there is an
agreement with Hawthorne Academy to use the large parking lot after school hours and on weekends.
That lot combined with the on- site gravel parking provides 181 parking spaces. The applicant will have
personnel directing traffic and pedestrians for safety purposes. The Building Official has determined
that because many of the individual activities will be operating for less than six weeks, so the ADA
paving requirements do not apply. However, they will do an inspection of the hay maze to ensure
stacking is safe and appropriate. The police chief stressed the requirement that there be no parking on
2200 West, which is a condition of approval. The Fire department will be required to inspect the larger
tents.   Animal   Control   does not have any concerns   or permit   requirements.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
July 20, 2021
Page 2




Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Temporary Use Permit for the
expansion of Schmidt' s Produce, located at 9010 South 2200 West in an SC- 1 zone, with the
Conditions and Requirements of Approval listed below.

Conditions of Approval
1.       The business activities shall be consistent with the submitted application, letter of intent and
         site plan.

2.       The site shall be kept clean and free of trash and debris at all times.
3.       Electrical power sources and/ or lines must be located so as to not present any hazard to the
         public.

4.
         The produce stands, tents, anchoring equipment, ticket booths, trailers, food trucks, temporary
         toilets, animal keeping equipment, sign( s) and other equipment/ materials associated with the
         farmer' s market and associated events shall be completely removed from the site when the
         Temporary Use Permit expires. The site shall be fully restored to its original condition within 5
         days of the permit expiration date.
5.       The easement and the parking space created for the pressure reduction valve shall remain clear
         for the City' s access.
6.       The office shall be located on the west side of the produce stand and shall be locked from 9: 30
         PM to 9: 00 AM to prevent public access for the duration of the temporary use.
7.
         The days and hours of operation shall be Monday through Saturday from 9: 00 AM to 9: 30 PM.
8.       The parking area shall be paved with compacted road base gravel or recycled asphalt per West
         Jordan Municipal   Code Section        13- 12- 5D.
9.       No on- street parking along 2200 West will be permitted.
10.      Any lights used to illuminate the site shall be arranged to reflect the light away from all
         adjoining lots. Lights shall also be shielded to eliminate uplighting. All light levels shall not
         exceed 1 foot- candle power at the property line.
11.      The event shall adhere to all applicable noise ordinances of the Salt Lake County Health
         Department.
12.      Verification of shared parking agreements between Schmidt' s Produce and Hawthorne
         Academy shall be provided to the City upon request.
13.      All animals shall be secured in fully enclosed pens and shall be provided adequate food, water
         and    shelter.




Requirements of Approval
1.
         The Temporary Use Permit is valid for no more than 150 consecutive calendar days following
         the date of commencement.
2.
         Tents that are 400 square feet or larger must be inspected by the Fire Department.
3.       Hook- ups to utility lines   will   require   a permit   from the West Jordan   Building & Safety
         Department.
4.       Comply with all applicable                        of the   West Jordan
                                         requirements                             Building & Safety Department.
5.       Obtain and maintain a valid West Jordan City Temporary Business License.
6.
         One, 32 square- foot sign is allowed with the Temporary Use Permit and must be securely
         attached to the trailer or placed on temporary poles in a landscaped area. One additional sign is
         allowed only with approval of a Temporary Sign Permit.

Pamela Bloom asked if there is a way to make this a permanent use so there will be no need to reapply
every   year.
Planning&     Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
July 20, 2021
Page 3



Mark Forsythe said that temporary use permits for a period of up to 150 days need planning
commission approval, but they can be renewed annually on an administrative level.

This was a business item on the agenda.


MOTION:            Ammon Allen moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff

                   report and upon the evidence and explanations                 received today, to approve the
                   Temporary Use Permit for the Schmidt' s Produce Expansion 2021, located at 9010
                   South 2200 West in an SC- 1 zone, with the Conditions and Requirements of

                   Approval listed in the report, amending:
                   6.      The office shall be located on the west side of the produce stand and shall be
                           locked outside of business hours to prevent public access for the duration of

                           the temporary use.
                   7.      The days and hours of operation shall be Monday through Saturday
                           between 8: 00 AM and 9: 30 PM.

                   The motion was seconded by Jay Thomas and passed 7- 0 in favor.


3.        Addenbrook Phase 2 and Phase 5; Continued from July 6, 2021; 6100 West Fallwater
          Drive; Amended Development Plan for increased building height; MFR ( WSPA) Zone;
          Addenbrook Highlands Corp./ Richard Welch ( applicant) [# 239271



Rich Welch, applicant, said that Garbett Homes has been building continuously in West Jordan since
1995. In 2015 they presented what would make up the 180- unit Addenbrook Village within the
Highlands master plan. Addenbrook Village is made up of single- family detached homes, twin homes,
and approximately 100 townhomes. Changes in the market have prompted the requested changes to the
plan.    The 2015 home designs were adequate at that time, but with the Covid pandemic it brought a
need for people to have workspace at home. A mix of product types in the townhomes has 70 rear
entry units on 20- foot- wide lots and the rest with front entry. Since the footprints were already
determined by the approved master plan, the solution was to create more space by adding a third story.
The architectural elements that were submitted in 2015 were in line with the density buy ups allowed
and included proper mix of covered porches, enhanced window/ door/ eave/ roof treatments, equal
disbursement of high-quality building materials, and energy efficient building practices. They feel that
their new plans have all of those same elements included and meet the spirit of the development plan.
When building permits were submitted for the revised buildings, staff felt that the changes were
different enough that they needed to come back to the planning commission for approval. The residents
in attendance and staff probably do not view these changes as meeting the spirit of the approved plan.
He proposed that if Exhibit B, the staff recommendation,              is acceptable to the neighbors and the
Commission then Garbett would accept that recommendation. They want to make sure that the
architectural renderings for those units would be acceptable to the Commission as well. Bill Ramsey,
their architect, was attending the meeting virtually if there are questions regarding architecture and
materials.




Larry Gardner showed the proposal to replace the two- story townhomes with three- story townhomes.
Staffs recommendation was for a mixture of two- and three- story units. The applicant would also like
approval     of the new architecture,   even   if the three- story   units   are not approved.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
July 20, 2021
Page 4




Trish Hatch opened the public hearing. She noted that the comments of those who spoke at the prior
hearing for this item were place on the record.

Harmony Mitchell, West Jordan resident, said she lives in the Broadmeadow development adjacent to
Addenbrook Village. The residents in that area were aware of the master plan when they built their
homes in 2017 and that they would be adjacent to two- story townhomes and what the elevations
looked like. She felt that it is more cohesive to keep the two- story structures on the south side of Fall
Water Drive. The Gladstone development on the other side of Fall Water Drive is full of three- story
townhomes. She did not feel great about a mix of two- and three- story townhomes.

Carly Lewis, West Jordan resident, stated that she previously lived in the Broadmeadow community
and now lives temporarily in the Gladstone Apartments. She felt that the new proposal looks the same
as the apartments already in the area. The cohesiveness of 2- story blends in more with single- family
rather than the feeling of another concrete jungle of apartments. She said that more square footage
could be added with a basement rather than a third story. She said there are also issues with the
entrances and parking.


Evelyn Thomas, West Jordan resident, said she lives at the top of the hill. They are already below the
level of the road so the perspective that was shown is not a true representation. The three- story
buildings would be even higher.


Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Trish Hatch asked what the distance is between the homes and the townhomes.


Larry Gardner said there is a 60- foot road, and the lots are probably at least 100 feet deep.

Ammon Allen asked if the commission is looking at architecture tonight.

Larry Gardner said they are forwarding a recommendation to the City Council, which includes
different architecture,   which staff is fine with.


Ammon Allen thought the architecture looked fine. He asked about the slope of the property as
mentioned by the resident.

Larry Gardner said that the property is somewhat level, however, all property in that area slopes from
west to east.



Trish Hatch said she would love to poll the residents to see if they were in favor of the mix of two- and
three- story units as shown in the staff recommendation.

Larry Gardner did not recommend polling the audience, because it is the Planning Commission' s
recommendation.




Ammon Allen     asked     for an explanation   of   how staff' s recommendation   came   about.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
July 20, 2021
Page 5



Larry Gardner thought that the conclusion was that there was a lot of public opposition to taller homes
from the residents when Addenbrook was approved, but he did not remember if three- story homes
were proposed at that time. The two- story product has settled in with the neighbors, so there are
concerns when the plan changes. Ray McCandless wrote the report, but he thought it was just a
compromise by placing the three- story buildings where they would be least obtrusive to the neighbors.

Corbin England displayed a street view map of the area to see if there is a drop in elevation from Fall
Water Drive.


Jay Thomas asked what kinds of options the Commission has for making recommendations.

Duncan Murray said the Commission has the option to make a recommendation with whatever
configuration they choose as long as they accurately describe the recommendation and the reasons for
any variations.


Matt Quinney said he is pro- development, but he was against changing the MDA, because it is not fair
to the residents who believed that the approved plan would go forward. He did not see that this would
improve the city or be of value to anyone other than the landowner.

MOTION:           Matt Quinney moved, based upon the information and findings set forth in the
                  staff report and upon the evidence and explanations [ clarified on August 3, 2021],

                  to forward a recommendation to City Council to only allow two- story homes in
                  Addenbrook Phase 2 and Phase 5 as originally proposed in the MDA, and
                  including the updated architecture as discussed. The motion was seconded by Jay
                  Thomas and passed 6- 1 in favor with Trish Hatch casting the negative vote.


4.       Sprinkler Supply Hardscape; 1402 West 7800 South; Preliminary and Final Site Plan;
         CC- F Zone; Sprinkler Supply/ Mike Canning ( applicant) [# 24087; parcel 21- 27- 276- 024]


Mike Canning, applicant, said the application is for a preliminary and final site plan and building for
their hardscape business.


Larry Gardner said the property is currently vacant. He reviewed the surrounding property uses. The
operations include sales and display of hardscape landscaping materials such as rock and pavers. A
5, 000 square- foot sales office building will be located at the south end of the property. Parking meets
the ordinance for the CC- F zone. The entire site will be asphalt. Attractive landscaping is shown on
7800 South, and a 20- foot landscape buffer and masonry wall will abut the residential properties to the
north. Building elevations were shown. All elevations will have relief in order to break up the long
expanse of walls. The east and south elevations   will have a storefront   look. The Design Review
Committee recommended approval.


Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Preliminary/ Final Site Plan for
Sprinkler Supply Hardscape located at 1402 West 7800 South in a City Center- Frame ( CC- F Zone)
subject to the approval requirements listed below.


Preliminary Site Plan, approval   requirements:
Planning&   Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
July 20, 2021
Page   6



1.
           The proposed development shall meet all applicable 2009 City Code requirements.
2.
           An approved preliminary site plan shall remain valid for one year following the date of the
           approval.

3.
           Planning Commission approvals do not include Public Safety, Fire, Building and Safety, or
           Engineering approval.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Kelvin Green, West Jordan resident, stated that his property abuts the north property line for this
business. He felt that the city needs commercial development, and this will be a good use for the land.
The residential neighbors will get the benefit of a landscape buffer and masonry wall, and the field will
be cleaned up. There was a request that the dumpster not be on the back property line. He was in favor
of the proposal.



Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Jay Thomas felt this would be a great place to get landscaping supplies in West Jordan.

MOTION:            Jay Thomas moved to approve the Preliminary/ Final Site Plan for Sprinkler
                   Supply Hardscape located at 1402 West 7800 South in a City Center- Frame ( CC- F
                   Zone) zoning district subject to the approval requirements 1 through 3 as listed in
                   the staff report. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7- 0 in
                   favor.




5.         Text Amendment— Alcoholic                Beverage      Control and Uses; Continued            from 7- 6- 21; Amend
           the 2009 City Code by adopting Title 17 Alcoholic Beverage Control, as a set of land use
           regulations; and by amending Sections 13- 2- 3 Definitions, 13- 5C- 4 Planned Development
           Zones Permitted and Conditional Uses, 13- 5D- 2 Office and Research Park Zones
           Permitted and Conditional            Uses, 13- 5E- 3 Commercial             Zones Permitted and Conditional

           Uses, 13- 5F- 2 Manufacturing Zones Permitted and Conditional Uses, 13- 5I- 4 City Center
           Zones Permitted and Conditional Uses, 13- 5J-4 West Side Planning Area Zoning District
           Permitted and Conditional Uses, 13- 6B- 3 Redwood Overlay District Permitted and
           Conditional Uses, and 13- 6G-4 Transit Station Overlay District Permitted and
           Conditional Uses; City- wide applicability; City of West Jordan ( applicant) I# 231141

Larry Gardner said that the City Council proposed a new title in the City Code be created for alcohol
administration in West Jordan, because it is currently administered over three titles. This proposal
removes references to alcohol uses in the zoning ordinance. He noted that the removal of` Reception
Center' from the SC- 2 zone came about as a recommendation from the Planning Commission. There
will be 23 definitions regarding alcohol use in the title that come exactly from State Law. He reviewed
the new use table and explained that this is considered a land use regulation.


Duncan Murray said the main goals of the proposed ordinance are to update the city code to be more
compliant with State Law, and to consolidate in one title the definitions, procedures, and use tables
regarding alcohol beverage control and uses. Although this is a function of State Law, we still have a
role   to play   from   a
                            zoning   perspective.   There   are   also   cross   references   in Title 13 to the new   title.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
July 20, 2021
Page   7




Staff recommended that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to adopt the new Title 17 Alcohol Ordinance and the changes to Title 13.


Pamela Bloom asked what more needs to be done to get in line with State Law.


Duncan Murray said this will get us really close. There will probably be some things that are missed in
compiling a title this large and the second thing that may cause the need for additional changes in the
title deals with Economic Development. This code will allow more of an opportunity to bring in
businesses that were inadvertently left out because there was not an appropriate use listed in the table.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Kelvin Green, West Jordan resident, said he was the primary author of this code. The draft ordinance
was submitted prior to the State requirement to do so. He asked if the use table lists the types of
licenses. He also asked why the Transit Station Overlay District has a separate use table. He said this
title consolidates the regulations and allows for more communication between all departments
involved. He asked the Commission to forward a positive recommendation for adoption.


Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Larry Gardner said the uses listed are right out of the definitions but uses such as a hotel could be in
some zones but not all zones. He explained that the TSOD use table is written like this currently and it
was difficult to combine the tables due to size.

MOTION:              Pamela Bloom moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
                     report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a
                     positive recommendation to the City Council for the Text Amendment regarding
                     Alcoholic Beverage Control and Uses and changes to Title 13. The motion was
                     seconded by Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.


MOTION:              Trish Hatch moved to adjourn.


The meeting adjourned at 7: 01 p. m.


                                            itCid
                                                TRIS    HATCH
                                                                                                     ESTE '
                                                                                                                t,,


                                                Chair                                     o
                                                                                      A                         o ,+
ATTEST:
                                                                                 rC
                     Oet                                                                      0. .
                                                                                                     4   eat
Jl     IE DAMS
Executive   Assistant

Community Development          Department                                                                r '.



Approved    this '    J       day of     All(,(,--
                                            1                           2021.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHAPTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHA'




                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i
                                                 B iirdens
                                                    ,..... on
                                                       Development
                                                  N ew
                                                     -



                                                                                                      Condition s and Exactions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            on
                                                    1. Imposing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      f,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Developmentdha
                                                    Approval
                                                    Approvals

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               er-
                                                                                                                                                                                         because                 the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .         issues involved                                                                                                                            4

                                                                                                these                          ara
                                                                                                                           separately
                                                     We we consider                                                        suF—

                                                     lap several areas
                                                                                                                         of land use adivitY, such
                                                                                                                                                   as:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       is apPr° ve                                                  t
                                                                              1‘, 44. vis-ions- When a
                                                                                                                                                                     subdivision
                                                                            Su.,—
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       developer or property
                                                                                               can be P laced                                                                                      on m e


                                                                            requirementsof the
                                                                             owner as conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                 approval?             l?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     use               permit is
                                                                                                                                  Uses. When                                                a     conditional
                                                                     0       Conditional
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       officials can
                                                                                                                            what the local-
                                                                             approved1                d are there limits to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lue with the
                                                                              demand                      in order to make the use comp
                                                                                              and                neighborhood?
                                                                                                                     rou                                             d?
                                                                                                                                                                                                       owner                    eks a                    aria rice, can
                                                                              variance s. When

                                                                              the land use appeals authority
                                                                                                                                                       a

                                                                                                                                                            propertyimpose                                                                             vrequirements                    and


                                                                                                                                                                 those                                                                                 additional                             bur-
                                                                              conditions.                                on                the variance? How are

                                                                                              ithattel-A7                  4-•




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           owner                                                                to
                                                                                                                                                           When
                                                                                     Situations.
                                                                               Other Situa
                                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                                                                                                            seeksA that
                                                                                                                                                                                                  propertYarre(
                                                                               a state            road; when

                                                                                               tions;
                                                                               allow for conditions;
                                                                                                                                                               any
                                                                                                                                                                    when
                                                                                                                                                                                     special


                                                                                                                                                                                     sphomeowner
                                                                                                                                                                                         hom         a
                                                                                                                                                                                                              approvals


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            r      seeks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lyair'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to     c ecoeuhnssed
                                                                                                                                                       told          there                           are conditions                                to do so', and in
                                                                               to utilities                              and

                                                                                                                                       situations.
                                                                               other similar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       109




                                                                                               a- -   -   ""."       <   ;-; -'   --   ,   --••

                                         v   -       -=,'-'




                               t,--,,--                                      -,                  11,
                                                                                              --"--                                    ---•, _             -<•- -'            ,.,-; ,,               --• -       *--,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 oi,--            --.,------------ ,                                          -_,
                                                                           1_,_,„--,-   0- _          ,,,,,,,, -" -_,•,,,,,-,,,,%
                                                                                                                                             5'
                                                                                                                                                                     --->•;                       -• ,,,,,,,,,;;%                       2_             ,_- -___---
r5                                                                          4                  -''                                     '-,                      '                                 , -,>.                    1%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -_   ---• -'-'--;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '-'.-                     e`---    -- ----,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -                                                             4--   -- ---, -,



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Z%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4      •• -     -,___%%!,,                             __ •„;, ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                     i-%'--
                                                                                                                                                                                                       W - '--                                                                            V - ''     ,•%----       --                --% '----

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           a---_-;„,,,,,_%,..-,•„,,,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                p,,,,,,--               -- „,,,-,_ ,,,,:"%,,,,, ,,,
            r;,- --
                              0 --;' '',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t   %         -•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        a   ---   ----?;-.-



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5,,,.-. ,,,,;:::-"„
as , -'',,--- '--, % =% -- .,•-- --- --`,7 - ' -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      f-, ';         ,-,-;.{-
                                                                           5*%          --,      - -,-•:-,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 f- W.--  %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0-,%%:;„ ',---"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           f•---••,,,,,,,--   ,••:"'•-,

                            x, -,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 fr
                                         a•--    -,,-,--   '••---•   ,-,                       S--'''            -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                v
                                                                                                                                                  e, ,-".-%"
                                                                                                                          1 :--1-,t;;;
                                                                                                                                                                            05                   :<''''   -'':
                                                                                                                                                                      1 - -'-• , ,`,".
                                                                                                                             v    ,„,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                g, P-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4*".
                                                                                                                                              W. VoW,•'
  o

                                                                                                                                                                                                            r,•,`'.•,,•..
                                                                                                                                                  ,,%•                                   1,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                       -•,""-
                                                                                                                                                                                                10-"-•••'°-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  a'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;    75;4".- 0 .-T=       4w--'• '         a               '-'
                                                                                                                                                                                 7.-„,-- , .-,---_-,-,,, ,,,   5_,---=--_-__„-,
                                                                             e,,,_,:„.•    ,     ...,, ,,             ft.-
                                                                                                                     0,...    „-...-- -_,,..„,,. ...,-, ,-, ,-,—,-...„ -,-
f-- -;,--=-
     1-- ---- ,,,, ,--.          4- .-,-:----..,,-,- ,-,----,-,- -„
                                                                                                                                                           t, ; 1?-- -: ?=---.,---    -,-   --- -.* --                               1
                      1,-;:,.,
                                e-----
                            1,5`,-,                                   ,,--   .         43.r
                                                                                 ,, ---•  ;-„-, ..,- 4-1,9-;-
                                                                                                   v.>-                     --;   =-,, -:,,,      -;:'#:,----,      ,,.
          7,-,,_-- -„',
                    i-:-.-;__.-.


f';•'''   --      -




      I.
                                                                                  A Utah Citizens Guide to Land Use Regulation



                                                                                  What can the government require a property owner/ applicant                                                                         -,
                                                                                  to do in order to get a permit or approval?                                                                                              s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       s,-,---




e-.
                                                                                  The United States Supreme Court has laid down guidelines for
                                                                                  conditions that offer some help in evaluating the balancing that
                                                                                  must be done in making sure that government does not go too
     a,--.-   -




                                                                                  far in burdenina-1,                changes in land use.
   4;


                                                                                  The Utah State Legislature wrote these standards into statute in
                                                                                   2005 by enacting new language which reads:
                                                                                           A municipality ( or county) may impose an exaction or exac-                                                               -,
    0_—                                                                                    tions on development proposed in a land use application if:                                                                 ;
    ri
e.!,,
                                                                                                    1.      an essential link exists between a letimate govern-
  514,„
                                                                                                            mental interest and each exaction; and

                                                                                                    2.      each exaction is roughly proportionate, in both nature                                                    ---- -     f

                                                                                                            and extent, to the impact of the proposed develop-
                                                                                                            ment.'

AA-14z

                                                                                   The basic issues are:


                                                                                          1.     Does the proposed condition or requirement advance
     1,-.-,,                                                                                      some legitimate government function? Is it the kind of
                                                                                                  issue that local planners should even be involved with?
                                                                                                  Does it relate to an issue that is within the jurisdiction of
                                                                                                  local land use controls?

                                                                                          2.      Does the proposed condition or requirement solve some                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                    the development                 or mitigate some
                                                                                                  problem          by
          i ,                                                                                     negative aspect of the proposed land use?
                                                                                          3.      Is there a roughly proportionate balance between the
                                                                                                  problem and the cure? Is the condition or requirement
                                                                                                     overkill” or does it fairly balance the duty imposed on
                                                                                                   the applicant and the burdens the proposed development
                                                                                                   places on community                 resources?


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 z a'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1



                                                                                                                                                                                                               40-                   -




                                                                                                                                            r:-          - ---,-,
                                                                                                                                                            5•;-- f4--- --             ,-               = J,'-_?,-p-:
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 ---,--;-
                      7---,,---,        43-7,,                 5-r*-
                                                       is.-;!,,-,,  :-:;-,-
                                                                   t----                       --' ;---     ---,:-,,-;, '   ,:-- ',—;-:-='"---'
                                                                                                                    g_--- ,--.

      ggts-as-z - ;=
                                                                                                                                       kg, ,       g---‘   05ti,st: 2;u--
                                                                                                                                                                        1.*-  1--
                                                                                                                                                                             4eig                            , tivoi,
                                                    e-      4-        45? -                                                                                                                                          dogv_gg,,,,--1V,--         ,,, --
                                                                                                         1 ' n-1:  Zi--
                                                                                                                     iff:-               -
                                                                                                                                        4+                                                                                                               4'._'•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15-;,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ii,;(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       04,411.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             egts-
                                                                                                                                          7* 4;                          ;W41-                                                                                                               ft,?;
                      15;.1-           ;;;;: -:
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                     4--
                                                                                                                                                                                                       761;3*:           11-'- '*”
                                                           46.4e.,.-_,
                                                                   a-----,,
                                                                        V.,                w-w-      -,   f-:<--
    el,,,,
 3,---      ,,,---                                                                                            1,,' --    ;?:         4- f-
              v-----_,-----
           3--,        7,-,--,
                               1,---,--:-.-•;-
                                                                                                                                         I441; 3:
                                                                                                                                         es-
                                                                                                                                               •12"
                                              4.;2,- c- i-,,,,,,---:                                                                                                                          4nex',,
     K,_,---------      --,";---;,,,,,..--,-,..,,,                   4,--             , p-                                                                                                                       Aig0 - ---7--„
4-      4----
            7„,-;--
                4-x-,:_.*,,,-;     z-,,,,- 4,.--,;,--
                                    5-,,,,;:%.,,,,,,,.:-„,,, 4--,..,<_=,
                                           7-
                                                                                         t<
                                                                                    i :___
                                                                                           14- s-, -..--:,-;>:
                                                                                         1,---,,„
                                                                                                                        ,.-„,,,,,,,,,,;„,---
                                                                                                                                                             e----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              fr,.=,'.---'''
                                                                     r,               • --' s„,,,--.--
                                                                                             '- ,,---.---;,-,-


       t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              111
                                                                                                                                         Burdens on New Development




                                                                                                                                                              problem?•                       Does
                              4.          Is there a less intrusive way to solveissue,
                                                                                 the but in a manner                                                                                                         Tier
                                                                            condition                     address                  the
                                           the proposed                         .          .
                                                                                                                                                                        or impose                        a

                                           that limits very significant property rights .
                                                                                when some                        other, less intrusiveoption
                                           heavy burden                                                                                                                                  such a
                                            would             also        solve           the problem without imposing
                                            harsh burden,2
                                                    1,   47.
                                                           4r,.„,:           1%,
                                                                 oz,-,..,;,„;,-,-;;---,,,,,,,,
                                                                                    f,,,;.„:
                                                                                                nkly, 17-,1,,;',
                                                                                                                 i, 1,,,,,
                                                                                                              i,,•-•                                           1,,,,„
                                                                                                                                                                         7,: f.,-,,,..,
                                                                                                                                                                                   Imi,,,,                    ,,,,,, _

                           1,,,,,,    z,     1,,-,-•.-.,..,----- -
                                       e.- --,..


                                                                                                                                                 Commission
                                                                                                                                         coastal Comm
                                                   California'
           If                 Case Law — Nollan V.

                                                                                                                                                      brought                   to light                 inthe
                                                                                                                                       was
                             A prime                     example           of an illegal condition
                                                                                                              owned property near
                              story of the Nollan family, who
                              California. They went te geat
                               galow galow         and      replace         it with
                                                                                                                                     7Tmhoelis           h their beachs ide bun-
                                                                                                                                                      California. Coo
                                                                                                                                                                              SantastBsalrcboarami
                                                                                                                                 comment                     t on the building                                per-                                                                                ti,
                                mission                  is given statutory authority to co
                                                                                                          to the commission,                                    they were told they
                                mit. When the No Bans                                      went
                                                                                                                                                                                              beach              to
                                                                                                                for public access                                        to their
                                would               have      to deed                an easement                                                                                                                                                                                              AI
                                                                                                             objected.                   He          objected                       all the wayto
                                the                            uNol I an o
                                              State of California.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                r

                                                                     Court, which agreed that the
                                                                                                                                                                                         commission

                                                             Supreme Cou
                                 the United States                                                                                                                             purposee                  of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                    held             the                                                                                                                          4--
                                     had gotten a little carried away. The court
           g--




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7




                g




                                                                                                                                     N---''--',-




                                                                     i-    ,-"--,,-,------,---

                                                                                                                               v.,    davanead                          se     Ala17 .° 171jIY"% lire_
                                                  California          ofaosrtapf            man rssv,-)
                                                                                                 ''     itiegahy
                                      The
                                                                                                              to , this beach in order                                   to    get a building P
                                                  tCs                                    1°ic access
                                     away easements
                                                                                                                                 4andelker.
                                      mit.
                                                   Photograph
                                                   Photog                 cou   rtesy of Prof Daniel i1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1



                F:




                                                      T2--;
                                                         A: r-',, ---
                                                                   f-,-,--                          ,', .--,=__-- =
                                                  f=tZ:= -' ,                                                    0&-        --,- 4-_-‘"-
                                                                                                                                                             e4,:
                                                                                          tati=
                                                                                              k4- -, W",-,-
                                                                                                                                                               w.       - 1w,... 4,,,
                                                                                                                                                                        0,          4,4sw,,-                          5, -;;:
                                                                                                                                               V.!;                  ,- ,:, , ---                                                  ww,~1--- -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4-
fir, ------: --:-;,-- --                                 ------ - ' -,-,--,-- - ::------;------:----___ ,-;,...
                                                                                                                                                                                         A,   -          i      --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4-,f_,--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          51`-'4- c,,-,..   R,,,=AV'"-• -           _- mg-f-At„:-",.>,-,=
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  e4-f.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0,-AJi-,r,
                                                                                                    4-                                                                                                                                                   Afix --,0-',-' 44--:< 3--='-',4,nu---.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.
                                                                                                                               4-
                                                                                                                                04.-•.',.°':-,7,------,r,„.:7_, A,-;---
                                                                                                                                                   f--:- -

ke#:**--                              --,-,,,,,
                              x----_,---
                                  i-w---• -----
                                                                                                                                                                    4.--- -:,       4,            1, -
          32   A Utah Citizen' s Guide to Land Use Regulation




                commission was to preserve access to the beach, but that charter did
                 not include a mandate to demand easement for access across the                                                                                     .;
                 beach. The commission was operating outside its authority and was
                 attempting to solve problems it was not created to solve. The require-
                 ment to " exact" the easement was therefore a " taking."




                                 Case Law — Dolan v. Tigard, Oregon

                 In another case, Florence Dolan wished to expand her hardware store
                 in Tigard, Oregon. The City of Tigard required her to dedicate land to
                 the city for a bike path, but Florence could not understand why. She
                 saw no connection between her expanding a hardware store and the
                 city's worthy desire for a bike path. (It may be that in all her years of
                 selling       plumbing   supplies, no one                            had ever taken                  a       toilet home               on a             I
                 bicycle!)
                                                                                                                                                                         a

                 The city' s
                           condition            down by
                                                  was struck

                 had not shown that the bike path solved any problem that Florence
                                                                                                the court                         because           Tigard
                                                                                                                                                                         I
                  had created.




                                                                                                                  4       -          444

                                                                                                                      t




                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                            7




                                                                                  Vnia4,44444‘ 444-<
                                                  4444'
                                                                                                                                  4. 4t1A,
                       44444
                                                                                                                                             42 - V44
                                            44-
               4444                                       44e6604444   4444'>   44-                    4   4'.   4 44444,-    4
                                                                                                                                                         4A- 44A-




                  Above is Florence Dolan' s hardware store in Tigard. Oregon. which she wanted to
                      expand Her refusal to accept the conditions imposed by the city led to her vsc-
                      tory before the US, Supreme Court, which held the conditions imposed on Ms
                      Dolan constituted a taking.' Photograph courtesy of Prof Daniel Mandelker

                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                         l




re./04;
   04f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       113
                                                                                                                                  Burdens       on     New Development




4--
        Rough     proportionality


           n if the bike path the city demanded of Florence Dolan was-
           essitated by the occasional cycling handyman, the court also
1-#.-
          ted that showing some vague relationship was not enough.
         ovemment entities must show, by an individualized analysis in
        each case, that the dedications and exactions imposed on devel-
        opment are roughly in balance, imposing a burden sufficient to
        offset generally the burdens created by the development and not
        Kpuhcantly more.

         or example, if a homeowner has an adult child who wishes to
        build a home near the parents and the family decides to divide a
X-      two- acre lot into two one- acre lots, then it would be appropriate
1,--    to require them to provide the normal amenities for that new                                                                                                                                                                                           4   ' :



        home. If the roads in the area are 60 feet wide in single family
        neighborhoods, then it could be required that the road in front of
        the new lot be widened to become 60 feet. This width has already                                                                                                                                                                                                 i     -



        been established by the community as the normally required
V--'    road width for single- family occupancies.
4
0-
        But if the community has a plan that an arterial highway be built
1-      along the roadway where this lot split is occurring, it is often
        tempting to require the homeowners to dedicate enough land for
        the future four-lane highway. This would be inappropriate and
        illegal since the proposed home is not creating the need for a four-
        lane highway.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I;



        If the proposal was to build a truck stop, then maybe the four-
        lane road would be justified. But the property owner can only be
         required to solve problems in a manner that is " roughly proper-
         tionate" to the burdens his development is creating.

         Least intrusive solution


         Lastly, it needs to be considered that even if the goal of the con-




                                                                                                                                                                                1.--   ,   ,,                                a   -„-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               r-,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             f.;:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3,   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              k,,,0'         1:'
           s'-
                 Y-.,1,-                     ---- •- , ,,--, ;--, ;-'--,- -- -                                          --,---.    ,-- —----,.‘,-, ,                   :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 "%t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0 .,--•,-,-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     z%%;                           1.r) '-!---;-.,,,--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               f-*`%-- )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                      e--,,,   .;<,,,   ,-                          w---- ,----, -=,-=- '                                   4;     ---' -     4,-;;---;::-. -
                                                                                                                                                                     0"-    4_,;-->-,,
                                                                                                                                                                           i-               ,,-, -               -                               e---;-{-
                                                        1„---,,.- ,,-.                                                                                                                                                           1-?.::- 7----                           s's-,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                      a-:--'-'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ' 7--,'.-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1-, 4•--     01-
                                                                                                                                                                                           a;   ---




                                                                                                                                               L . .. -'-''; '' '' -
                                                a'-'-   _   ,   '   -   -=:   %,--   '-   %'--,   -   „-   --




                                                                                                                i.--
                                                                                                                  sf_
                                                                                                                        44*-,-      --   ,-
                                                                                                                                                                     f4=
                                                                                                                                                                                                   c ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                ote=>;                 - 1.- -';'-'-':<:#-    7, 5-*`;;       --. ."--''
                 A-            --                                                                                                    fti--            0;;
                                                                                                                                                   - ;-         -,          --
                                                                                                                                                                       4!-- oz,•
        5_             41--:,. :
                                      S';'•''''""-
                                               771T.------,;--:--::"*-7,4,-:*.,:-; :-_ ,.., ,:,,-,-..-                                                                   s!.',:-
                                                                                                                                                                   t;           4 -;     z:fflit‹,-          1.1*;----:,--.;#           1.--:   1-> 4..e.'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Irft-;,            -:, --      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ei-„,. ,, ;*'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4,;,-:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            74,„--;''--;    Cfi, - 7-,-;;


                                          114                                  A Utah Citizen' s Guide to Land Use Regulation



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        txt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        u,
                                                                                                                                                                             goal,              and even                              if it solvesthea
                                                                               dition is an appropriate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      even                                                                              in
                                                                               proposed land use creates or
                                                                                             equal to     problem itisea                                                                                                                                  to solve, there is                                                            re:
                                                                               lion is                  roughly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ri-
                                                                               still one more issue to consider.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        have
                                                                               There are some particularly                                                                                      sacred rights
                                                                               recognized                                         for          all                 property
                                                                                                                                                                                         owners.                                For example,                   in  courtsc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               intheas eof

                                                                               Florence                           Dolan, the city also attempted
                                                                                                                                                 toforceher to dedicate to

                                                                               the city an environmentally sensitive. creek that ran along her
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 k

                                                                               property-The goal was to create a public parkway, which had no                                                                                                                                                                     -.
                                                                               connection to Dolan' s store, but the city claimed that the dedica-
                                                                               tion of the land was necessary to protect it as a floodway. There
                                                                               is no doubt the city has a duty to protect floodways,.but the same
                                                                                result could have been reached by simply limiting her ability to
                                                                                build along the creek By making her keep it clear for the staiiii
                                                                                                                                  to create, the
                                                                                water that her expanded parking area was going
                                                                                city could solve the flooding problem. There was no legal justifi-
                                                                                                      Y---
                                                                                                                 A'- 44-           17-


                                                                                                                                         its,- -;,-.77-- ..                     z.-=4.=;,'..1.=-0-•'-',,                    - -   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i'.-.--. : i.,*
                                                                                              9,=:
                                                                                     z, r•-,,,-.--
                                                                                                 1 --,-,                                   --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14, 0" r.-.,itr-4
                                                                                                                                            A„:,=
                                                                                             1:,                                                Ar",:                           x4.
                                                                                                                                                                                         4..           li:;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                =-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -,---,-..

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ii:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        v=---,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ititty,--,'-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 v-,,--...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7-,                                      -,„ ,..-.-,,„

                                                                                                                                             f-                    = 411' ' l'-                    w,,,,,, ,,,-,:,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                   =''.;',4t -
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ft.',.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,:?
                                                                                                                                                                                                               A
                                                                                     1C4k,..::, ,-,--=                                                                     a.      44;:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1-44: =
                                                                                                                                                                                              41-,, ,,,-.
                                                                                              7tkvirq---                                                                           7-,- ---
                                                                                                                                   4-]                                                         t--,,le'.-1,44




                                                                                                                                  5)
                                                                                                  1.)::".             7.5:
                                                                                                                         r..,
                                                                                                                                         4;   4: '',...-'':.:-
                                                                                                                                                                          4':•',




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T-.,:'.-',,,.   tr',            -


                                                                                     Above is the creek                                                    behind            Florence                  Dolan' s hardware store.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            development                                          creekit            could -:
                                                                                                                                               the city                  could       Testi-,tr
                                                                                     Court said                            vvhile


                                                                                     require the creek be deeded to the city as a condition of development.

r
i.,--




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...- 1M00,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4?'-",,,                   i.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    k...„
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I,-                             4'                  r.•-,.--,   ,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X'".
k
t--::
                                       2--;::- -:*,:     t4--**W.P'.;;;?-•-f--;•---                                              4444P-
                                                                                                                                          rt•
                            7,, C1-:
                                                                                 e                                        ., ,,.- '-'
                                                          A-;
                                                           5..                                                                                           t5A:.--- .             4' 4,,        ,',"-'
                                                             m                                                                                                                                                 7'- ,.,%,;':>:-.                  7.,„*. f.v; -;'- ,„-    4:./.;:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            e.;:,":
                     Z ----.:.,:  4'. 1',',', 1 rti---
                                 t,..;,,. ,;-,..---                                                                                        Ve''''''----',-,';''_
                                                                                                                                                              ZZ* r"..
                                                                                                                                                                   t„,-.' 1, 4•!
                                                                                                                                                                               ff--•--2:                -,,:,                                                                   44-ii0, 44,•,..z. 4 — ci      4•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,•-.
             T- "':,'„ ,-.                    7-•,-,
                                                   1**- 40•                4
                                                                       44::-
                                                                                     4- -.--,---'-•„----**, ---------••-,, ',...

                                                                                      --.. W-f _.---- -
                                                                                                                                                       1v7.--                                               11S;p-- ;
                                                                                                                                                                            vsAstrvuect,-zt-f.Tre-47.-Z.----.,..:-,                                            14            ii
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - 4c-  , ..       -:         ;-,;
                             7.:'--   tf- '
                                            MIZ.-
                                                4,,-- 1,-:                  77-1 .    f,.
                                                                                           e.


                                                                                       7",.,.,-,.:
                                                                                               r.-17rAzor‘
                                                                                                          t41. X...*V.:
                                                                                                                                4''_        reirklr•-   --,...=.


                                                                                                                                                                             5. . -.,---,                      1.--"
                                                                                                                                                                                             f4W.v?.!_:----:-...      r:;.-",-,-,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.,.. 0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Avc. i.--     181-----& zsit _.•-- ---:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     --, ,.,,-,;:-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,,,-;,.---_,,,,,-;                           -, -, ÷
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,, -----,.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V'-A                                - .
                                                                                                                                                                                t-'
                                                                                                                                                                        y.',, ...--
                                                                                                                                                                                     4, ''''' -- ''-', --...'',,,,..-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I:,:;--$'",--'„, ,•.,.,                --- .---,•.---_- ,                                                           --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            z-, ::'---:
                                                                                                        v_

                                                                                                         v_,-, ,
                                                        aa,_   :   ,„, ,,,,__,„

                                                                                                                   43'. ,,,,   -,-- -.   4,.       .,    -=,=            ',     -;•
                                                                                                                                                                                1-  1;;',':=;=*'.
                                                                                                                                                                                           1,- 3- 4-. 1 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                   4-- 1 , 1-f-*
                                                                                  1-,- ",;-_ -   --
                                                                                                       0----,--=-
                                                                                                                3-,, ,,---=-'
                                                                                                                           i',-                ;-- --=-'             ,-=';'           ----=
3-, ,,,,„            -,,       et'''=<°'-,-„--                                              ,         `=;               ------,                ,
                                                                                                                                                                      5"„ ,---=- -
                                                                                                                                                                                         T-- 4-     0----%       ,==
                                                                                        f;,=-- ;,,•,-          -'- i -,;-,-
                                                                                                                Z:---, ,,--
                                                                                                                        4-- , Z;---,
                                                                                                                                  fg               ,,,,, ,,'=",,--   P--,-
                                                                                                                                                                         5-   4=      -,:*    --'-
                                                                                                                                                                                               f-
                                                                                                                                                                                                A&, r- ->--':
                                                                                                                                                                                                           4---,-"
                                                                                                                                                                                                              "


   a"=----,,   -,----,   —-,
                                      5a,   ." -




                                                                                                             Burdens on New Development                                         115
                                                                                                                                                                                                             v




                               cation for its attempt to grab the title to the land along the creek
                               in order to use it for a city park when building development
                               restrictions would have adequately protected the flood plain.
                               The city had raised an appropriate issue, but the wrong solution
                               was imposed. Indicating the right to exclude others fromher
                               property was a sacred, protected right, the US. Supreme Court
                                                                                        ourt
                               struck down the dedication requhements as too intrusive.

                               Utah courts have held that local land use processes cannot
                               impose conditions, impact fees, dedications, and other burdens
                               on development if those who will use the property will not ben-
                               efit from the public improvements and amenities they finance or
                               donate! For example, a city could require the property owner to
                               install curb and gutter along the front of the property, but not
                               force the property owner to cure an existing storm water prob-
                               lem up the street above his property which was caused by the
                               lack of curb and gutter in front of someone else's lot.

                               Other examples of inappropriate burdens and conditions:

                                     A subdivider may be required to meet a city-wide stan-
                                     dard for open space, but that does not mean he can be
                                     required to convey title to the open space to the city.
                                     Those developing land on hillsides cannot be required to
                                     install trails across private property when those develop-
                                     ing land in other parts of the city have no requirement to
                                     dedicate trails.                                                                                                                                                        1



                                     A property owner cannot be required to pay an impact fee
                                     for water lines and then also have to build water lines,
                                     completely at his expense, which the impact fee is sup-
                                     posed to pay for.
                                     If a development demands an 8- inch water main to serve
                                     its residents, local officials cannot demand that a 12- inch
                                     main be provided because that is what is needed to pro-




                                                                                                                                                                                                             o.,.
                                    1,- ,   x   -   -   "- %-                        a        '
                                                                       4   ,-
                                                                                                                a

                                                                                                          4--
                                                                                                                       4 -"—
                                                                                                                                                                                          Z%, -          <---,   4-----:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4-   4 --      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               aaa   --#-   -''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4 -      4- --

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4-
                w-- -
                    rg2ir------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a4-•   aa'   '%


                              ri -- .---',/*:`-'-::--- %. ,.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4-
                                                                   2 .,•,m -,-           --_,„,
                                                                                                                    1- - <;-- - -- - ---- , -,---   -   --, ,   - ,--   , ---.    ,-- -   --„,-- -,




       Aw --------, -,- ------'--,---:--,.
                                       p.-- __,-.;,----------,- ,-,--:--,,,-----          ,       -




                                            116                                 A Utah Citizen' s Guide to Land Use Regulation




z-
                                                                                                                    for other                                             potential                        development                           in the area.                                          city
                                                                                                      should pay the cost of upsizing the water lines forThee
                                                                                                      vi
                                                                                                      vide


5-                                                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                                           th

                                                                                                      additional                                    capacity.

                                                                                However, it is important to note:
w--
p,-
ci
                                                                                                                               loper can volunteer public improvements if they
 n-
                                                                                                      Adevteo.
                                                                                                      wish


                                                                                                      There are sometimeslegitimate.                                                                                                   trade- offs where the com-

                                                                                                      mumty munity givesbonuses                                                                         in density and lot sizes in return
                                                                                                      voluntary public improvements.
                                                                                Legal conditions and exactions on development must meet four
41--                                                                            tests:


                                                                                     L                advance                            a le gitimate                                                public purpose and be within the
1*-----                                                                                               scope                of           thegovernment                                                          en
                                                                                                                                                                                                               entity              to impose;
                                                                                     2.               address                         some                                burden.                                                                                                                 t-


                                                                                     1                                  iona e                                                                                                         hthureddenevimeloppomseedno, n the
                                                                                                      beroughly proportionate
                                                                                                      development;                                                         and


                                                                                     4.               solve the problem                                                                       in the m                                                             least intrusive

                                                                                                      onwiprthotoeuctteaddpdirnopgenrtey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 li,--




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              iyncplaehtmunicpaltyresdteuovs
                                                                                Tips for participants


                                                                                This corner o                                                                               use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 busy                                                                  gov-


                                                                                ernments                             conftilnanudall
                                                                                                                                                                                 y seeactik.            vit'   accommodate.-,--
                                                                                                                                                                                                           otYaicscao                                                        eblaen„        Localent
                                                                                change                                                                                                                wntaghxtsablnrdetreThwthheeo                                  existing popula-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      pnfaces,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         out
                                                                                tion.
                                                                                tion. A developer                                                               is a tempting targe                                                                                usually
                                                                                o
                                                                                of       town.                       They are here to make money and supposedly have
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        considered
St;
                                                                                some to share.                                                      They are promoting a change and
                                                                                                   cause
                                                                                              rootcause                                     ofsome
74-i-
 f., .
                                                                                                                    them to solve                                                 eofsothmeepprmobbleliensms                              seems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  only fair.

                                                                                As far as it goes, of course, there are fair and logical justifications

           3,




     4--




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        w,-                  ----

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fk,- .                    ,•.-,,,-   ,,„
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c,-,-,- ---„

           C.--,.--
              T
                         A;,
                  a--,     ',$';;;=;-
                                                               c , --
                                                          AA---;   -:=   -.---
                                                                                     '-                            N,
                                              A=,         -                                                                      a --   :          A -   ,,,_-` ,-   -=%.   ‘                                              m       _--           --,-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A,- ;,,,--   ;,      1.. - s_ 14„- --;-$ -             0,   ;-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      x.<,---         ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           f,-/-- -                      -;;                        1,- c_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A- -,.-



                                                                                                                                                                                                       m,                                                     s",-,,        ,-,*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1--,-,-'         1; •,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V    .,- 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ; 0,
                                                                                                        5--   ;-_---'   ,--&--




                                                      i? t--
                                                           ;
                                                           5- - -—
    55                                                                                                                                                                          54'4        ,-:    -
0-'"=5 ;• '! --'                    -         r            =,--                  -
                                                                                           ea'     '-'--.-   ---   ---',         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4



                                                                                                                                                                      Burdens          on   New Development                                                                117




                                         for imposing burdens on development. The problem comes from
                                         the fact that sometimes the locals get a little milled away and
                                         impose disproportionate burdens that are out of balance.

                                         As a practical matter, however, there is no easy way for the
                                         landowner to fight the imposition of burdens on his proposals
                                         Any appeal of the burdens imposed is going to take time, and
                                         landowners don' t usually have time. They usually have more
                                         money than time, and if they don' t get moving, they could miss
                                         their development opportunity

                                         Those who make their living in the development business also
                                         have a valuable ongoing relationship with the building official,
                                         the zoning administrator, and citizen planners. They worry
                                         about whining too much or fighting back against.unfair require-
                                         ments becausethey need to work with local officials and there
                                         are always issues where a developer needs cooperation. Where
                                         local officials have so many ways to regulate development, those
                                         who are regulated have learned that it does not pay to kick up
                                         too much of a fuss.

                                         If you are getting started in the development business, when you                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I

                                          attempt to get approval for your first project you need to be very
                                          pessimistic about the cost and time involved in the process. You
                                          can, of course, insist upon an absolutely legal approval process if
                                          you are willing to take the time to run appeals and do the neces-
1
                                          sary
                                          sary work to make sure that every condition of approval is legal
                                                  work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 54
                                          and fair. But it is quicker, and often cheaper, to go with the flow,                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50

t                                         accept some inappropriate regulation, and get the job done soon-
                                          er,er, if not less expensively3 ( I am not advocating what the U.S.
                                          Supreme Court has called " an out-and-out plan of extortion" but
                                          only pointing out the realities.)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                          In Chapter 10, we discuss appeals. Perhaps there might be some
4
                                          method among those outlined there that could fit a given situa-
                         55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  J




                                          4   -
                                                  4   -   -*,                -   -        - --,-    -----          ---,- ,-„,-              , --   -     - --
                                                                                                                                                                                                    a   -,   -   _,   _-   -   -   ,,   :,•,-.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1:::- P .;,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         li-  ,,-, 14",,,,,-/.--       5!
     mfr-                1--            z_   4, _ ,,,_-' -_:, --,,-; -- '"---- 40"."- ---",- ,
                                             -                                                              4--                   4e"--

                                        1---:                                                                                                                                          w          ,q,---
                                                                                                                                                                                                  A'-',,-       90'- -                                          rf, --"..,, ,*             0-6-,----,,,,-,
         a   --



    r:                        5-
                               k---:,-,-;- 00- -------,%- 4::
                                                  fri--------,---,    A-,,--“,t23'*;•"%-:---%----
                                                                    v--                                44----=',-
                                                                                                  0- ';',''.-                                                                           -'                14';'''- '---, "'''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i    •-     -,,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      f44 -` -',.''   r ' 7- "-,''.`',`"-- -` 4- 1- ,,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5`.--- ,
                                         Iwk4-. 4--,- ;--:- - -
                            t; 4,--„,„,-
                               .            ,-- --,-,',                                                                           --,,,.., --- --- - _-,• --,_:                                                                                                                                                ---_,--- .....---
                                                                                                                                17VC--- - •---.-*t. - - .- !,:;,;-,.;.-..,:-.--- .                                                            f --,-,„ ---:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A."---.,;                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ao4.-.          .-------,--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3,--.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         r-,-;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jr- -,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A--,;;-   4--„,.....,-.----_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                it--_,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.--- -           e0tf',---




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             __-
 u-;•-,-.-,--
                  wf.A.-- ---...;‘,.:
                                    rer,                          •, .).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.,--                        7---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ---„,„_,         4...-...;,--*„...,...,-  ---..,,,-—        4--------
                                                                                    f.,—. ^
                                                                                           6-,   -   -,-

                                                                                                                      5w- --                                                                                                                                                                                                              z.,:-;,:-"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.,.:---     It.„-.:
                                                                                                                                                  rxo.------.;„ ...,-.-,#.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              4--.                                                                                                                                       7,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           gr-                       V,,,    :.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              i.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            atz      4   1 .,    4telff,,,,,_,- 0::            Irgr.S.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i.',: 474:,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i..*.


Crir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            i

                                                                                                                 A Utah Citizen' s Guide to Land Use Regulation




                                                                                                                 lion and allow an appeal of disproportionate burdens in a m                                                                                                                                                                                           an-


                                                                                                                 ner that resolves the issue without taking too much time or
W.-                                                                                                              resulting in long- standing hostilities. This is an area the Proper-
     1                                                                                                           ty Rights Ombudsman is hired to assist with, so do not hesitate                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..
                                                                                                                 to call.
1-1.?


io--
                                                                                                             2. Impact Fees

                                                                                                             Impact fees are imposed on each house, business, or other devel-
 I!.
     4-                                                                                                      opment;.-based on the expected cost of public facilities to service
                                                                                                             that unit of development. They are general and usually apply
                                                                                                             commu.nity- wide. They are set by ordinance, based on a com-
p--,
00
i'4
                                                                                                             munity capital improvements plan, and can usually be relatively
  A                                                                                                         easily predicted and calculated. Counties, cities, towns, special

7—
3:
44-


                                                                                                                                                                                              Th'
                                                                                                                                                                          Le..;-,,                       s--:-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            f-i-,'''''.,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      c,;---;•,?- .                                '-- • 'e--;-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           --,•- --,- -- -                                 .041-.

                                                                                                                                                                       4 --- --             4-- -    ,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4-          4   -= --,..---, ,'--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7'- -     4,---.---- ,
t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A-4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14-* ---•-•• - 44`,..''.-
                                                                                                                                                                                    4—                   - ,-- -!„                                                                                                                                         T.444--. 0-,4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              i'-''-            -;        '•          •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            e,.,<.*--,,,           ft      ,   „-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t,                                 1-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ii-,, -._-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Z- ' ;:




ie



                                                                                                                  01t--. - :'-,
                                                                                                                                                          4,......
                                                                                                                                                                        0,„--     ,-,,,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t ', -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1    Tic', '. ,           ',, -,- , , ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i- r•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                     1.-. : ---- ,-...,--- .,-,-,-. - --                             ,,.-

                                                                                                           t-                                                                                                                                       i-- ,-,- ",-;,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                g ,                        --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  d„,_,..„,..•,,,,




                                                                                                           Local government, ontinually stratlis to iilet! the iitilny icquirements of flea,'growth
                                                                                                           while battling the decay ofold" infrastructure." Impactfeesare a major source ofrev-
                                                                                                           enue in handling the expansion, but not replacenwnt of utilities.


it




k„.
                                                                             41.' '-`- -              -'*' - '                               Z .,,, '''                           Z'' 4..-`,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t'-="
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      k,..:*".-
                                                                                                                                          1-$' - - ---- -...", --                                                               VW. -.` '''•..' , -- - ,

     W     --                                                                                                                                                                                                               1f' -",;•-• ,..--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               j,.....:-.-                             '     ---               ''',.;...
                          7,,„'-,':-.°--:-::                     7--; " 41' *          j*                                                                                                                                                1::'-'-.• ..,`"*"'_ '            tion,.. Ar...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V,.,.„" 4,-                                   '..-,
V-..,,     i-: ' '-,-;-,- ,.=`;',- `                 Air, '''.                                       irr41.-'31-      1-'-; - - '''''' -.,•,-,-                                                                    D,     ,,, --,-;---,           1. ,„-                 4-W-,,-`   1:`
                                                      71',                                                                                                                            4,     te- -                   1; ;;;;;                                    k,-,,,,_,„,,„,„,
                                                        V"`.*• : -----.. ,' ------ , -#..,, ,_,'-' ''•'' -,,•, ,,,- —                                                                  1,4VIC'                      U„'"
                                                                                                                                                                                               u- 544t- Lrfs,,,,,,,:., ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           lr''-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4-,.„„
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        44,-,--,"`:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7,-,'*:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          04,,,,*(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0P4>., Z-,- ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ti'•'-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r-
P'2' f'''-''   4   ''''-     ''". ": '.'    1' . :

                                                                           7 .'';
                                                                                                                                               w-                  4.---:                           4-
                                                                                                                                                                            --, -:. '-,.;,,.-----------------..        4.-    ww,„„„             7-,!,-, taw.,,,,: -_-:,-,-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -                  z.„..„,.                                                       r,,,
                                                        aVf--                                                                                                                                                                    t..
           L., --.--::'-: '-',..,..----                                        VV44."            ''' A-' '-' ' ,..                                                                                                               C'''
                                           1;,;, Vd-  5,:
                                                          eik',---'
                                                                          4,!'-', ---,                                                                                                                              a:'''

r--'''''"
        1--1-4,--,?=::           Ft------                 -- 14,-.1,,,-,:                      A1. 4 -- 0-
                                                                                                                       a...,,
                                                                                                                     4-F-
                                                                                                                                '''''**,.*:'
                                                                                                                            44-14,-
                                                                                                                                                          r '''-            AElt - FAigte----..;--              -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4'-a•-.                       4r4c71;;
           44: -------'-
                                 f----w- k---"---,--
                                                     4---4441g---%.-
                                                                                      ri.--                    44-"- 4---,--•-.:
                                                                                                                                             1_
                                                                                                                                               1-
                                                                                                                                                   T4-r--'.--
                                                                                                                                                           7-   7j; S-          14-_- ,
                                                                                                                                                                          n-"----,-!--',--- - - ::-.--_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  44- -       411*- --      7, --,',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Irfl--                                                                                                                 4".-e:''-'- - ,,-          '---*
         t-                                      STIMe'-, ---        4::',•----',--- ,-?',-;"" :.„*.4...-,-..-44,-- 7.--,                                                                                  1: 4-.- 4-- 4:' Ix;'• "-
             1,-.---.--, ;:,=-:,       t,
                                            i:,-----
                                                   x''' :   tf--"-,:--''''-'                                     i,-;--
                                                                                                                                                     4-'-.-.--:
                                                                                                                                                               70r. .-, - :, --- ,-_;--,--,; :
                                                                                                                      4. - 4 ••- -, - -' :,,-„_-_-____ --- ----- --                                    4:', -:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7. `-'=•-=''',"--- ' • '-:                                                         4..
                                                                                       fif';.-_,     ',.':- _                                      1,-—-- -, .-.:...., -- ,
