 MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING
 COMMISSION HELD MARCH 1, 2022 IN THE WEST JORDAN COUNCIL CHAMBERS

 PRESENT:
                 Jay Thomas, Kent Shelton, Matt Quinney, Trish Hatch, Corbin England, Ammon Allen,
                 and George Winn

 STAFF:
                 Larry Gardner, Brian Berndt, Duncan Murray, Julie Davis
OTHERS:
                 Paxton Guymon, Rita( remotely), Natalie Maxfield ( remotely), Mayor Burton, Kathryn
                 Persch ( remotely), Jamie Newman ( remotely), Sonny and Cora Jckowski, Celisse
                 Edwards, Ken Melby, Jay Schmidt


The briefing meeting was called to order by Jay Thomas. The agenda was reviewed and clarifying
questions   were answered.




The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 00 p. m.
1.     Consent Calendar
A.      Approve Minutes from February 15, 2022

B.
        Test Utah; 8000 South Redwood Road; Temporary Use Permit( 150 days) for Covid
        Testing;   P- F Zone;   City of West Jordan ( applicant) [# 25223; parcel 21- 34- 128- 020]

 Item 1B was pulled from the agenda.]


MOTION:
                 Corbin England moved to approve the Minutes from February 15, 2022, as listed
                 in the packet. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7- 0 in favor.


2.     Hidden Cove Subdivision Rezone; 7136 South 2200 West; Rezone 5. 5 acres from R- 1- 10D
          Single- family 10, 000 sq. ft. lots) Zone to R- 1- 8C ( Single- family 8, 000 sq. ft. lots) Zone;
       Paxton Guymon ( applicant) [#26245; parcel 21- 28- 230- 019, 024]


Paxton Guymon, applicant, stated that his business partner Ken Melby was also in attendance. Last
year they were applicants on the Dahle property rezoning for a 6- lot subdivision. During the
subdivision design they determined the parcel couldn' t be its own subdivision because the road on
2200 West had to line up with 7125 South, which would cause them to lose two lots. They assembled
the infill properties to the west along with the Dahle property to be part of the entire subdivision. The
proposed R- 1- 8 zone gives flexibility in lot sizes to make the subdivision layout work. The concept
shows entry points from the south to Mel Helen Way and to 2200 West, which gives complete
interconnectivity. The proposed layout is functional and has some lots at 8, 000 square feet and five lots
that are more than 10, 000 square feet. Average lot size is about 9,400 square feet. They have worked
very hard with staff on the layout and bridge crossing design and integrating with the existing
neighborhoods. They are not flipping the project. Their third partner in the project is a home builder
who will design homes that will be nice additions to the community. The general plan asks for new
development to focus on staying predominantly single- family,       which   is what they are asking for. They
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
March    1, 2022
Page 2



specifically developed a proposal that would meet with staff' s approval and that will provide needed
housing in an area where is it difficult to find new single- family homes in a price range that works.

Kent Shelton said the concept plan looks great, but he wondered what kinds of assurances they can
give the residents and the Commission that they will not come back with all 8, 000 square foot lots.

Paxton Guymon recognized that the approval tonight is only for zoning and not for subdivision
approval, but he stated for the record that they are not flipping the project. The subdivision work has
already been engineered so that is exactly what will come back for plat approval. They aren' t going to
pay to redo it. They are involved in building the homes as well. He has been a land use attorney for 24
years and he gave his word that he will not do a bait- and- switch.


Brian Berndt gave an overview of the project that has an overall medium density residential land use.
Zoning designations appropriate in the medium density range are R- 1- 10, R- 1- 9, and R- 1- 8, so the
request is for a zone change and not a change to the land use map. These parcels will be combined with
the Dahle property that was rezoned last year. The current home on the south property is one of the few
buildings that will remain in the future development. Staff began working with the applicant with the
Dahle property and the alignment to 7125 South became an issue. There is an open space area shown
on the concept plan that will work as the retention area.


Staff recommended that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to approve the Rezone for Hidden Cove Subdivision located at 7136 South 2200 West.

George Winn asked what the property is currently used for.

Brian Berndt said it has been agricultural and pasture.


Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Sonny Jckowski, West Jordan resident, said that he and his wife Cora have lived on the west border of
the property for 45 years. He and the neighbors that he had spoken to understood that the property was
R- 1- 10 zone and knew that it would be developed at some point. However, they were surprised that
this request for rezoning had come forth without any input from the residents. He felt that the
developer was using the Dahle property zoning as a steppingstone to rezone this property from 10, 000
square feet. The neighbors had only seen the conceptual design on Friday. He and his neighbors would
like the item postponed until the residents in Harvest Estates can meet with staff and the developer. He
thought that a nice number of homes could still be built with the R- 1- 10 zoning.

Jay Schmidt, West Jordan resident, said he lives on Mel Helen Way that will tie into this subdivision.
He also would have liked to know more about this sooner. He spoke to the developer just prior to the
meeting and felt a little better knowing that there are some larger lots and some smaller. He would like
big homes on the property in order to keep their property values up. They want to be involved with the
design of the subdivision. He said that ten years ago it was presented for development, but there were
challenges with the cul- de- sac length. He understood that it will tie in with 2200 West, which will
make    things better   with   traffic through their   subdivision   as well.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
March 1, 2022
Page 3



Celisse Edwards, West Jordan resident, understood that there will be a range of lot sizes and that some
will be 10, 000 square feet, but the people who will be most affected by the change are those homes on
2370 West and 7095 South, which borders the majority of the 8, 000 square foot lots. She asked if the
smaller lots could be moved to an area where there aren' t already homes that will be affected.

Jay Thomas noted that emails in opposition of rezoning to smaller lots were received from Larry and
Judy Blanken, Bryan Edwards, Celisse Edwards, and Mark Carson.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

Matt Quinney was concerned that traffic will short- cut through this neighborhood to get to the
elementary school, adding cars on Mel Helen Way. He didn' t want to block connectivity but asked if
there was something they can do to reduce the traffic through this new neighborhood.

Larry Gardner said that is more of a subdivision question than a land use issue, but they will be
dedicated public streets. He didn' t know of any legal way to block someone from driving on a
dedicated public street. Connectivity of neighborhoods is an overriding goal of the general plan and is
a benefit from an emergency and social aspect. There are too many neighborhoods in West Jordan that
do not connect, which is worse for school children than having people drive through a neighborhood to
get to school. There will probably be much more traffic going toward 2200 West than there will be
coming from 2200 West, because right now it is quite distance to get to a collector street from the
dead- end neighborhood. A single- family residence averages 10 trips per day and these roads will be
more than adequate to handle any type of traffic generated through the neighborhood. There will be
more people on the road than has been on a dead- end street, but the purpose of stubbing the street years
ago was to make sure that new development is connected.


Matt Quinney explained to the audience that the job of the Planning Commission is more to verify that
the project under review complies with the rules and guidelines of the City. If it does then their job is
to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council, who will have more options to explore the
residents'   comments.




Jay Thomas reminded those in attendance that this item is only for a change in zoning. The subdivision
plat approved will return to the Planning Commission.

Trish Hatch appreciated the work from the developer in accommodating the needs of the community
and designing the space and creating the maximum benefit for cost effectiveness and for the current
homeowners. The Commission is bound to recommend approval if it meets the guidelines. Also, the
owner of the property has rights to develop their land just like the property owner did years ago where
current residents live. She is always concerned when infill development only has one access, so she
likes that this proposal will be a smart way to create new living areas in the community that will be
connective.




Duncan Murray clarified that even though the Planning Commission is bound to follow the criteria set
for them in the quasi-judicial process, the City Council does have complete discretion in their decision
as   to whether   or not   to ultimately approve   the zone   change.
Planning&        Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
March       1, 2022
Page 4



MOTION:
                      Ammon Allen moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to
                      approve the Rezone from R- 1- 10D ( Single- family Residential, 10, 000 square foot
                      lot minimum) Zone to R- 1- 8C ( Single- family Residential, 8, 000 square foot lot
                      minimum) Zone District for the Hidden Cove Subdivision      located at 7136 South
                      2200 West based on the criteria and positive findings listed in the staff report. The
                      motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7- 0 in favor.

Larry Gardner explained that the recommendation tonight required by State law will be forwarded to
the City Council to make the legislative decision. A notice will be sent to property owners once the
City Council meeting has been scheduled.

MOTION:               Corbin England moved to adjourn.


The meeting adjourned at 6: 28 p. m.



                                                     JA      T IOMAS
                                                     Chair


ATTEST:



            DAVIS71.




J       E
                                                                                        ti
Executive Assistant
Community Development Department

Approved this                   day of       M4 Y Ch                       2022
Julie Davis


From:                                  larry < blankenl@gmail. com>
Sent:                                  Monday, February 28, 2022 11: 08 AM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Cc:                                    larry blanken
Subject:                               OPPOSITION to rezoning to smaller lots in the Hidden Cove Subdivision



CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization.   Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



Hi Julie,

Please forward our OPPOSITION to the rezoning to smaller lots in the Hidden Cove Subdivision located at 7136 south 2200 west;
Paxton Guymon ( applicant).   To be clear, we are NOT in favor of downsizing the lot size from 10, 000 square feet to 8, 000 square
feet.   Our names are Larry and Judy Blanken, our address is 2296 W. Jonestead Way, West Jordan, Ut 84084.




Thanks,

Larry and Judy Blanken




                                                                    1
      Julie Davis

r-.


       rom:                                  Mark Carson < speedway1019@gmail. com>
      Sent:
                                             Tuesday, February 22, 2022 3: 49 PM
      To:                                    Julie Davis
      Subject:                               Hidden Cove Subdivision Rezone




      CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
      sender and know the content is safe.



      Hello Julie,

      My name is Mark Carson, my address is 2335 W 7095 South in West Jordan. Please forward my opposition to the
      rezoning to smaller lots in the Hidden Cove Subdivision.

      Thank you,
      Mark Carson




                                                                       1
Julie Davis


From:                     Celisse Edwards < celtoots@gmail. com>
Sent:                     Sunday, February 27, 2022 4: 30 PM
To:                       Julie Davis
Subject:                  Hidden Cove Subdivision Rezone


Follow Up Flag:           Follow up
Flag Status:               Flagged




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.



Hi Julie,



My name is Celisse Edwards and my address is 7193 s 2370 w in West Jordan. My house is on
the the most south west corner of the new building development. PLEASE forward my
STRONG opposition to the rezoning to smaller lots in the Hidden Cove Sundivision.

Thank you,


Celisse Edwards
Julie Davis

From:                      Bryan Edwards < bryan@trc. life>
Sent:
                           Sunday, February 27, 2022 9: 55 PM
To:                       Julie Davis
Subject:                   Hidden Cove Subdivision Rezone


Follow  Up Flag:           Follow up
Flag Status:               Flagged




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.



Hi Julie,


My name is Bryan Edwards and my address is 7193 s 2370 w in West Jordan. My house is on
the the most south west corner of the new building development. PLEASE forward my
STRONG opposition to the rezoning to smaller lots in the Hidden Cove Sundivision.

Thank you,


Bryan Edwards




                                                    1
