MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION HELD DECEMBER 21, 2021 IN THE WEST JORDAN COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PRESENT:       Trish Hatch, Kent Shelton, Jay Thomas, Matt Quinney, Corbin England, Ammon Allen,
               and Pamela Bloom( remotely).

STAFF:         Larry Gardner, Duncan Murray, Lisa Elgin, Mark Forsythe, Julie Davis, Paul
               Brockbank



OTHERS:         Mayor Burton, Alejandra Cardenas, Daniel Cardenas



The briefing meeting was called to order by Trish Hatch. The agenda was briefly reviewed. Training
was provided by Larry Gardner on traditional and form-based zoning.


The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 02 p. m.

1.       Approve Minutes from December 7, 2021


MOTION:         Corbin England moved to approve the minutes from December 7, 2021. The
                motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7- 0 in favor.


2.       K9 Fertility Services LLC; 8785 South Jordan Valley Way, Suite 200; Conditional Use
         Permit for Veterinary Services; P- C Zone; K9 Fertility Services, LLC/ Eduardo Daniel &
         Alejandra Cardenas (      applicant) [#   25965; parcel 27- 05- 204- 019]


Alejandra and Daniel Cardenas, applicants, explained the purpose of the permit is to operate K9
Fertility Services, which will primarily be laboratory testing.

Mark Forsythe gave an overview of the application. The closest building in the proposed adjacent
apartment development is 40 feet away from the clinic. The building is shared with other medical
clinics and offices that are located on the north end. The connecting section of the building is fully
walled off and provides a good buffer between the two uses. The main concerns are with noise,
boarding, and waste disposal. This is a niche use and appointments are only 15- 20 minutes per session
so there should not be a lot of impact regarding noise as all operations are done within the building.
The applicants have agreed that there will not be any animal boarding. Proper disposal of biological
waste, blood, and fluids will be done with the assistance of a consultant. Required parking for both
uses in the building is 31 spaces and 41 spaces are provided.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Conditional Use Permit for K9 Fertility
Services, located at 8785 South Jordan Valley Way in a P- C( ZC) zone, with the Conditions of
Approval listed below:


Conditions of Approval
 1.      The business activities shall be substantially consistent with the submitted application, letter of
         intent, and site plan. Deviations from these documents shall be reviewed by all pertinent
         departments   of the   City of West Jordan.
Planning&    Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
December    21, 2021
Page 2



2.
          All activities associated with the business shall be conducted only inside the building. Outdoor
          activities are prohibited.

3.        Kenneling, boarding or pet daycare is prohibited at this location.
4.
          All areas inside the building and the grounds outside shall be perpetually maintained in a
          thoroughly clean and sanitary condition.
5.
          The business shall comply with all applicable noise ordinances of the Salt Lake County Health
          Department.
6.        Biological waste shall be properly frozen, stored and disposed of in accordance with all
          applicable County, State and Federal health regulations.
7.        Cremation     shall not occur on site.


Requirements of Approval
1.
          A Building Permit must be obtained prior to commencement of any interior and/ or exterior
          construction work, as required by the Building Official.
2.        A permit shall be obtained for any new exterior signage.
3.        The business shall adhere to all sign requirements, as set forth in Title 12 and Title 13 Chapter
          17 of the West Jordan Municipal Code.


Ammon Allen asked if there is a barrier between this building and the apartments.

Mark Forsythe said there is a fence.


Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION:            Matt Quinney moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
                   report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to approve the
                   Conditional Use Permit for K9 Fertility Services, located at 8785 South Jordan
                   Valley Way in a P- C ( ZC) zone, with the Conditions of Approval listed. The
                   motion was seconded by Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.


3.        Text Amendment-           Helipad Ordinance; Amend the 2009 West Jordan City Code
          Adding Sections 13- 19- 1 through 13- 19- 6 and amending Sections 13- 5E- 3, 13- 5F- 2,
          and 13- 5K-2;
                        City-wide applicability; City of West Jordan ( applicant) [# 25817]

Lisa Elgin gave an overview of the proposed ordinance regarding helipads. The current ordinance is
silent on the matter. The amendment will add definitions and provide regulations for health and safety.
The use will be conditional in all commercial, manufacturing, and airport special purpose zones. Site
development     standards    and application      requirements    are also included within the new ordinance.


Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further   public   comment    was   closed   at   this point for this item.
Planning&    Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
December    21, 2021
Page 3



MOTION:            Corbin England moved, based on the analysis and findings in the staff report, to
                   forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the Helipad Ordinance
                   as listed in the staff report. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed
                   7- 0 in favor.




Larry Gardner said the next meeting will be held on January 18, 2022 since there are no items ready
for January 4.

Pamela Bloom expressed her thanks to the Commission.


Mayor Burton explained that it is anticipated the City Council will make new and re- appointments to
the Planning Commission at a meeting in January.

MOTION:            Matt Quinney moved to adjourn.

The meeting adjourned at 6: 14 p. m.

                                                 L7G1      77 m' f
                                                 Jay    omas( Jan 19, 2022 09: 26 MST)

                                                 JAY THOMAS
                                                 Chair
                                                                                                   37=-
    TEST:

                                                                                                          1

                                                                                              4f




J    E DAVIS
Executive    Assistant

Community Development Department

Approved this          /   g   day of            vL( xCtrU                               2022rir
