MINUTES       OF THE REGULAR             MEETING      OF THE WEST       JORDAN    PLANNING           AND ZONING
COMMISSION           HELD    JUNE     15, 2021 IN THE WEST       JORDAN     COUNCIL     CHAMBERS


PRESENT:          Trish Hatch, Kent Shelton, Jay Thomas, Matt Quinney, Corbin England, Ammon Allen,
                  Pamela    Bloom.



STAFF:            Scott Langford, Larry Gardner, Duncan Murray, Ray McCandless, Julie Davis, Paul
                  Brockbank( remotely)

OTHERS:           Gary and Nadine Riddle ( remotely), Paul Stringham, Nikolai Halverson, Lance Ridges,
                  Peter Gamvroulas, Lacey Nash( remotely), Jeff( remotely)



The briefing meeting was called to order by Trish Hatch. The agenda was reviewed and clarifying
questions    answered.




The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 00 p. m.

1.      Consent Items
A.       Approve Minutes from June 1, 2021


B.       Planning Commission By- laws

MOTION:           Matt Quinney moved to approve the Minutes from June 1, 2021, as listed in the
                  packet. The motion was seconded by Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.

MOTION:           Matt Quinney moved to approve the by- laws as proposed in the packet. The
                  motion was seconded by Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.


2.       Joseph View Cottages; 7481 South Redwood Road; Future Land Use Map Amendment
         for approximately 3. 59 acres from Medium Density Residential to High Density
         Residential and Rezone approximately 3. 59 acres from R- 1- 8 ( Single family residential
         8, 000 square foot lots) Zone to R- 1- 8 ( IDO- 1) Zone ( Single family residential— Infill

         Development Overlay) Zone and Preliminary Development Plan; Ivory Development,
         LLC/ Peter Gamvroulas (         applicant) [#   22884, 22885, 23493; parcel 21- 27- 401- 003, 016;
         402- 002]


Trish Hatch disclosed that she is employed by Ivory Employee Leasing and works for the Ivory
Foundation.



Peter Gamvroulas, Ivory Development, said the property is currently a rental property and is in a state
of disrepair. They originally felt that this piece would work well for a townhome or multi- family
product. However, after meeting with the land use committee it was felt that the Infill Development
Overlay for a smaller lot subdivision would be a better fit. The overlay zone allows some exceptions to
setbacks, etc. to accommodate a smaller development. The concept plan shows 24 lots with an average
of 4, 200 square feet. The public road system has one ingress and egress onto Redwood Road. Common
and   open   space areas   will   be maintained   by the HOA. The Redwood     Road   master   plan   envisions   a   10-
Planning&   Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 15, 2021
Page 2



foot sidewalk and 10- foot parkstrip with street trees and waterwise plantings. The Design Review
Committee asked for enhanced amenities at the end of each stub roads, so they propose one garden box
for each unit. To the east is an open space parcel that the DRC asked for more amenities on. The
development wanted to keep it as an open play/ gathering area, so they added benches, trash
receptacles, enhanced landscaping on the east, and two permanent corn hole standards. There was also
some concern that the underground detention in that area might present concerns for the lots to the
east, so they were asked to provide some sort of outlet into the city system. There is a city-maintained
drainage facility at the north end of St. Joseph the Worker church field. They have been working with
the Catholic Diocese to obtain an easement in favor of West Jordan to run a storm drainage system
through that property and into the city system. The proposed home plans come from their smaller
cottage home portfolio that have been built in other communities. They will adhere to the required
four- sided architecture and masonry requirement.

Pamela Bloom appreciated the changes made from the Design Review Committee comments.


Larry Gardner gave an overview of the project. He showed where the storm drain system would tie in
with the city system. The current medium density residential designation has a range of 3 to 5 units per
acre and high density is 5 to 10 units per acre. This project would be about 6. 5 units per acre. The
rezoning request is to add the Infill Development Overlay that allows for some of the site design
standards to be modified through approval of a development plan by the City Council. The Infill
ordinance creates housing opportunities along busy corridors such as Redwood Road where smaller lot
developments are accepted and tolerated, and there is an active market for this type of product. The
Redwood Road master plan is being followed for a 10- foot sidewalk and 10- foot parkstrip, which helps
to move pedestrians ten feet from Redwood Road. A 6- foot masonry street wall is required along
Redwood Road.       He felt that the four- sided architecture will make a nice project.


Based on the findings set forth in this staff report, staff recommended that the Planning Commission
forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the Joseph View Cottages, located at 7481
South Redwood Road, amending the General Plan Land Use Map from Medium Density Residential to
High Density Residential, amending the Zoning Map from an R- 1- 8C Zone to an R- 1- 8C( IDO- 1)
Zone, and adopting the Joseph View Cottages Preliminary Development Plan with the Requirement of
Approval listed below.


 1.      A storm drain easement in favor of the City of West Jordan shall be acquired from the property
         to the north by the developer prior to approval of the Preliminary Development Plan.
2.       In accordance     with   Utah Code Ann. Section   10- 9a- 534( 3)( h), and at the request   of the property
         owner and the applicant, and in consideration for the increase in density potentially allowed by
         the rezone, all applicable Building Design Elements of the City shall apply to the property and
         to the dwellings, structures, and buildings constructed thereon.


Trish Hatch said the plan refers to this as more affordable housing, but the requirement for four- sided
 architecture seems to defeat the purpose by increasing the cost of the home. She suggested that the
 ordinance may need to be reviewed.

 Larry Gardner said he would like to look at the numbers to see how the costs are affected before
                changes.
 making any
Planning&     Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 15, 2021
Page 3



Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


MOTION:            Pamela Bloom moved, based on the information         and findings set forth in the staff

                   report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a
                   positive recommendation to the City Council concerning the Joseph View
                   Cottages, located at 7481 South Redwood Road, amending the General Plan
                   Future Land Use Map from Medium Density Residential to High Density
                   Residential, amending the Zoning Map from an R- 1- 8C Zone to an R- 1- 8C( IDO- 1)
                   Zone, and adopting the Joseph View Cottages Preliminary Development Plan with
                   the Requirements of Approval 1 and 2 as listed in the staff report. The motion was
                   seconded by Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.


3.       Costa Vida; 5518 West 7800 South; Preliminary Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit for
         Restaurant, Fast Food; SC- 2 Zone; Peterson Development Co. LLC/ Lance Ridges
            applicant) [#   24012, 24170; parcel 20- 25- 351- 019]


Lance Ridges, Peterson Development, gave an overview of the proposed restaurant in the Highlands

Landing commercial development. Costa Vida indicated to them that this will be a new design
prototype. Materials are stucco, composite wood, metal, and metal sheeting. The flat roof will include
rooftop screening of equipment, and an outdoor seating area and trellis are shown. The Design Review
Committee had a question about the second menu board on the outside drive through lane. Conduit
will be installed for a menu board to be added in the future. Until that time, there will be some kind of

attractive, temporary feature to block off the second lane until it is ready to use.

Ray McCandless stated that this is one of the last lots to be developed along 7800 South. The property
is zoned commercial and is surrounded by commercial uses. The parking requirement has been met,
building height is consistent with other businesses in the area, and the landscaping will be attractive.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Preliminary Site Plan and Conditional
Use Permit for a Fast Food Restaurant(        General) for Costa Vida restaurant, located at 5518 West 7800
South in a SC- 2 zone subject to the approval conditions listed below.


Preliminary Site Plan:
1.       The proposed development shall meet all applicable 2009 City Code requirements.
2.       All changes to the site shall be consistent with the Site Plan application.
3.       An approved preliminary site plan shall remain valid for one year following the date of the
         approval.




Conditional     Use Permit:
1.       Planning Commission approvals do not include Public Safety, Fire, Building and Safety, or
         Engineering approval.
2.       Any appeals to the decision of the Planning Commission may be made to the Board of
         Adjustment within thirty( 30) days pursuant to City Code, Section 15- 5- 3.
Planning&   Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 15, 2021
Page 4



Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Pamela Bloom said that this building design looks good, and it will be a great addition to the area.

MOTION:          Matt Quinney moved to approve the Preliminary Site Plan for a Fast Food
                 Restaurant ( General)           for Costa Vida restaurant,      located at 5518 West 7800 South
                   in a SC- 2 zone subject to the approval conditions 1 through 3 as listed in the staff

                   report. The motion was seconded by Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.

MOTION:            Matt Quinney moved to approve the Conditional Use Permit for a Fast Food
                   Restaurant ( General) for Costa Vida restaurant, located at 5518 West 7800 South
                   in a SC- 2 zone subject to the approval conditions 1 and 2 as listed in the staff
                   report. The motion was seconded by Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.


4.       Maple Hills Park; 6543 West 7400 South; Preliminary Subdivision Plat ( 1 parcel and
         roads on 9. 677 acres) and Deferral of Design and Construction of Roads; A- 20 Zone; City
         of West    Jordan/ Nikolai   Halverson (       applicant) [#   24280; parcel 20- 27- 427- 011, 012]


Nikolai Halverson, West Jordan Public Works, gave an overview of the 9. 7- acre park that has three
points of pedestrian access. Public comments for park design were received by the architect and
considered when designing park amenities, which include a parking lot, playgrounds, basketball courts,
swings, play zones, walking trails throughout, and a scooter loop/ skate element. The park was designed
with the topography in mind, which is somewhat limiting. The large center open space would make a
great sledding hill. The meandering sidewalks gives it a residential feel and walkway and streetlights
are planned. They cannot build a restroom at this time because there is not a sewer connection. Storm
drainage is designed to retain on- site, but also in a way that can connect to a future storm drain system.

There was a discussion as to if this will tie into a larger trail system or if it is a standalone trail
network. It was pointed out that in theory it could connect with other trail systems that might be
installed with future development in the area. But for now, the only connection to the larger trail
systems would be through existing sidewalks. The Mountain View Corridor and U- 111 present barriers
that are challenging.    This park is really meant for the neighborhood.

Nikolai Halverson explained the types of groundcovers that they should expect to see in the park,
which includes BioNative grass for water conservancy and due to steep terrain. The center open space
will be Kentucky bluegrass sod, and the spaces in between the scooter loop elements will be BioNative
grass that is watered with the storm water detention.


Staff recommended       approval of Maple Hills Park Subdivision             located at 6543 West 7400 South;

Preliminary Subdivision Plat and Deferral of Design and Construction of Roads.

Trish Hatch Opened the public Hearing.

Further public     comment   was   closed   at   this point for this item.
Planning&    Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 15, 2021
Page 5




 MOTION:         Matt Quinney moved, based on the information and findings and requirements of
                 approval set forth in the staff report and upon the evidence and explanations

                 received today, to approve the Preliminary Subdivision Plat for Maple Hills Park
                 with the following requirements of approval:
                 1.          All applicable   city departmental    requirements     must be met prior       to
                             recordation of the final plat.
                 2.          Update the Final maple Hills Park Subdivision Plat to address all existing
                             and future planning, engineering, fire and all other City redline corrections
                       pertaining to the Maple Hills Park Subdivision Plat. Before the final plat are
                       stamped for construction purposes by the West Jordan Engineering
                       Department, all redline comments shall be completely addressed.
                 3.    Approval for the use of half-roads specifically 6400 West and 7400 South
                       adjacent to Maple Hills Park requires City Council approval.
                 The motion was seconded by Jay Thomas and passed 7- 0 in favor.

 MOTION:         Matt Quinney moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
                 report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a
                 positive recommendation to the City Council for the deferral of the design and
                 construction of 7400 South and 6400 West streets adjacent to Maple Hills Park.

                 The motion was seconded by Jay Thomas and passed 7- 0 in favor.

 MOTION:          Jay Thomas moved to adjourn.

 The meeting adjourned at 6: 38 p. m.
                                                    4
                                                   htil.
                                                      4011


                                                           A
                                                       ISH HATCH
                                                   Chair                                               4,




 ATTEST:                                                                                                    A,




iii             2k20.4._(;..
                                3                                                       r   ::




                                                                                                 eat
 JU   IE DAMS                                                                     i `


 Executive   Assistant

 Community Development Department
                      rr--
 Approved
  pp      this        U! rtl    day of                                    2021
